AHIS102!Introduction to Visual Culture I!This course is an introduction to different ways of understanding and communicating the many ideas that constitute our visual culture. Students will develop visual and conceptual skills essential to the analysis, understanding, and communication of ideas about visual forms. In addition to preparing students for subsequent more specialized courses, this course examines the historical relationship between visual work and the social context in which it is created in order to foster a greater critical and cultural awareness of art-making. Students attend both a lecture and a seminar. !3!
ANTH102!Anthropology: A World of Discovery!Using a thematic approach, this course explores what defines the human species. Some of the themes explored may include human evolution and our primate biological kin; archaeology and digging for the past; culture in a global world; communication or the essentials of being a talking and increasingly texting primate; health as social and biological; production and consumption, from the first stone tools to the Big Mac; and other topics that deal with humanity past and contemporary.!3!
ANTH200!Biological Anthropology!A survey of the origins and evolution of human population diversity. Topics covered include an introduction to evolutionary and population genetic theory; trends and debates in human evolution; principles of human growth, development and aging; and polymorphism, polytypism and biocultural adaptation in human populations. !3!
ANTH201!Medical Anthropology!Understandings of wellness in various cultural systems studied through the classification of health and illness categories, and the range of approaches to maintaining and intervening in health processes. Examples relevant to Northern peoples and issues will be developed. !3!
ANTH203!Archaeology of the Americas!A survey of the archaeological record of prehistoric human occupation of North, Central and South America. Issues such as peopling of the New World, paleo-Indian adaptations, origins of agriculture, the expansion and contraction of interaction spheres, and the consequences of contact will be considered from a regional and continental perspective. !3!
ANTH205!Introduction to Archaeology!An introduction to archaeological methods. This course will trace the developmental history of the discipline, and will focus on current methods and techniques used in archaeology. Using case studies from around the globe, the course will highlight the holistic and interdisciplinary nature of archaeology. !3!
ANTH206!Ethnography In Northern British Columbia!A survey of the ethnographic literature for this region, and  an introduction to the methodology and paradigms of ethnographic research. !3!
ANTH207!Popular Culture!The study of contemporary cultural phenomena with anthropological methods. !3!
ANTH209!Pacific Ethnography!A survey of the enthnographic literature of the Pacific with a focus on selected cultures and/or regions. The course will discuss the methodology and paradigms of the area's ethnographic research. !3!
ANTH211!Anthropology Through Film!This course will introduce the student to the subject matter and theories of social and cultural anthropology through the extensive use of anthropological and documentary film. Topics will cover a spectrum of issues, including: marriage and the family; economics; ritual and religion; conflict and conflict resolution; and culture change, among others. !3!
ANTH212!Archaeology of the Old World!This survey course focuses on human antiquity outside of the Americas. Temporally the course covers some two and a half million years of prehistory, beginning with the earliest known arachaeological evidence in Africa, and ending with the great civilizations of Asia, Europe and Africa. !3!
ANTH213!Peoples and Cultures!This course examines the diversity of human cultures and languages through the comparison of contemporary societies, and patterns of social organization.!3!
ANTH214!Anthropology of Europe!A survey of anthropological literature of Europe, with a focus on a selected cultures or religions. The course will discuss the methodology and paradigms of the area's ethnographic research. !3!
ANTH215!Anthropology of Canada!A survey of anthropological literature describing Canada, with a focus on selected cultures or regions. Examples relevant to northern peoples and issues will be used. The course will discuss the methodology and paradigms of the area's ethnographic research. This course will allow students to make inferences to analyze what is happening in their own community. !3!
ANTH220!Introduction to Primatology!A survey of major issues in contemporary primatology, including origins and evolution, taxonomy, socioecology, mating systems, dominance, co-operative and coercive structures, intelligence and conservation. !3!
ANTH230!Introduction to Forensic Anthropology!This course examines the contribution of anthropology to the recovery, identification and interpretation of recent human skeletal remains. Topics covered include forensic archaeology, methods of biological and personal identification, trauma and taphonomy, crime scene analysis, the anthropologist as expert witness, war crimes and mass graves. !3!
ANTH240!The Neandertals!This course examines conceptions and misconceptions of the most enigmatic of our ancestors, the Neandertals. Since first discovered in 1848 Neandertals have occupied a special place in the story of human evolution - they have been pathologized, idealized, and romanticized. Neandertals have generated more!3!
ANTH250!The Ancient Egyptians!This course is a survey of the development and workings of ancient Egyptian state society. The course begins with the pre-Dynastic Period and ends with the Ptolemaic Period, but the major focus is on the Dynastic Period. Using a combination of archaeological and documentary evidence, the course examines ancient Egyptian history, politics, technology, cosmology, and other aspects of everyday life.!3!
ANTH298!Topics in Anthropology!This course covers particular aspects of anthropology selected by the instructor. It may be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours) with the permission of the Program Chair (permission given only when subject matter differs substantially).!3,6!
ANTH300!Methods in Social Anthropology!Research design, data collection, statistics and analysis as used in anthropology.  The seminar will discuss field methods and use of archival materials. !3!
ANTH301!Archaeological Lab Methods!This course introduces students to laboratory methods used in archaeological analyses. Topics will include chipped and ground stone tools, fauna, bone tools, basketry, quantitative methods and more. Students will conduct research projects, and may have the opportunity to analyze artifacts from archaeological sites in B.C. and elsewhere. !3!ANTH202,OR,ANTH205
ANTH303!Archives, Texts, Museums, and Contemporary Communities!Students will engage in projects in which they combine the use of archival, textual, museum and interview methodologies. !3!
ANTH304!Kinship and Social Organization!A review of the literature on kinship and social organization, and an examination of selected cases from various societies. !3!
ANTH305!Circumpolar Ethnography!A survey of the archaeological and ethnographic literature on the north, with a focus on selected cultures from Alaska, Northern Canada, Greenland, Northern Scandinavia and Northern Russia. The course will discuss the methodology and paradigms of the area's ethnographic research.!3!
ANTH306!Culture and Communication!This course will provide an overview of the ways anthropology analyzes languages and communication. Topics may include: Ethnolinguistics and Ethnoscience, discourse analysis; and language use and language planning in the modern nation-state. !3!ANTH315
ANTH310!Applied Anthropology!Theory in practice as it is understood by those who practice and advocate what many consider to be an entire subfield in anthropology: Applied Anthropology. The course will focus on the practice of anthropology using examples relevant to the northern world, and will consider issues associated with doing anthropology in difficult situations. !3!
ANTH311!Nutritional Anthropology!This course undertakes a biocultural examination of the relationship between food (e.g., acquisition and avoidance; distribution; preparation), human health, and society in past and present populations. Lab exercises examine aspects of research methodology, including anthropometrics, dietics and energetics. This course is cross-listed with HHSC 311-3. !3!ANTH200
ANTH312!Human Adaptability!This course will examine the genetic, epigenetic, and behavioural/cultural avenues used by humankind in adapting to environmental stresses associated with extreme habitats, (e.g., cold, heat, hypoxia). Human (mal)adaption to postindustrial revolution urban conditions (e.g., crowding, noise, pollution) will also be addressed. !3!ANTH200
ANTH315!Anthropological Theory!This course investigates the major theoretical trends in anthropology from the nineteenth century to the present. It introduces central issues in anthropology theory, key concepts in the discipline, important authors and debates over  heoretical perspectives.!3!
ANTH316!Social Theory & Structure/Can!The Social Theory and Structure of Contemporary Canadian Society. A consideration of basic themes, theories and concepts in advanced social thought as they relate to modern Canadian industrial society. Theories to be reviewed will include: functionalism, conflict theory, exchange theory and interactionist theory. These will be reviewed in relation to key issues impacting modern Canadian industrial societies, including: social inequality, ethnic and gender relations, the family, political and economic organization, work and occupations, community and region, the environment and utilization of natural resources, and social movements and social change. !3!
ANTH320!Biology of Circumpolar Peoples!A lecture/seminar course exploring biological variability in contemporary circumpolar peoples, notable growth and development, morphology (size, shape and body composition) and physiology, within a framework of evolutionary ecology. Also addressed will be effects of culture change on, e.g. work capacity, nutritional adaptation, demography, and morbidity. !3!ANTH200
ANTH325!Archaeological Theory!Over the last three decades, there has been a tremendous explosion of literature concerning theory in archaeology. In this seminar course, students will learn about the historical contexts and development of the various theoretical schools that have contributed to our current state of knowledge. Weekly readings and seminar discussion will be mandatory. !3!ANTH205
ANTH335!Archaeological Heritage Management!In this lab-seminar course weekly readings focus on topics relevant to archaeological heritage management, also known as Cultural Resource Management (CRM). Discussions will center on issues such as: heritage legislation in British Columbia and elsewhere, First Nations and private sector concerns, and archaeological consulting. Labs will focus on methodological issues such as survey techniques, culturally modified trees and more.!3!ANTH205
ANTH380!Topics in Archaeology!This is an occasional course offering to enable existing or visiting faculty to teach course not normally offer in the program. Each course reflects the geographic and topical interests of the instructor, and is only offered depending on availability of an instructor. This course may be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours) with the permission of the program chair (permission to be given only when the subject matter differes substantially).!3,6!
ANTH400!Advanced Anthropological Theory!This course surveys and critiques selected contemporary approaches to cultural and social theory.!3!
ANTH401!Anthropological Perspectives on Inequality!An examination of the embedding of inequality in cultural systems, and the intersection of categories such as race, class and gender in systems of hegemony; examples will be selected from a variety of cultural contexts. !3!
ANTH404!Comparative Study of Indigenous Peoples of the World!A project-based seminar in which students will examine the similarities and differences of selected groups, focusing on issues such as relations with state societies, etc. !3!ANTH206,OR,ANTH208,OR,ANTH211
ANTH405!Landscapes, Place and Culture!This course provides an examination and critique of the anthropological approaches to landscape, space and place. Cross-cultural and cross-temporal case studies are used.!3!
ANTH406!Feminist Perspectives in Anthropology!This course will survey and critique selected theoretical approaches and ethnographies to examine key areas of interest and debate in the field of feminist anthropology. This course will draw from the political ideology in feminism concerned with critical examination of gender relations and cross-cultural anthropological study. !3!
ANTH407!British Columbia Ethnography!This course is a comparative critique of contemporary ethnographic research of selected cultures or regions.!0,3!
ANTH409!British Columbia Archaeology!This is a problem-based seminar in which selected issues are examined from several points of view.!3!ANTH203,OR,ANTH205,OR,ANTH212,OR,ANTH301,OR,ANTH325,OR,ANTH335,OR,ANTH380
ANTH410!Theory of Nation and State!A critical examination of theories of ethnicity, nationalism and statehood from an anthropological perspective. !3!
ANTH411!Topics in Biological Anthropology!This course is a problem-oriented and project-based seminar in which one (or more) selected topics in biological anthropology are examined.  This course may be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours) with the permission of the Program Chair (permission to be given only when the subject matter differs substantially).!3,6!ANTH200
ANTH413!Environmental Anthropology!This is an examination of the anthropological literature on ecology and environmental practices in which contempoary issues and examples relevant to indigenous practices and northern peoples are developed.!3!
ANTH414!Religion, Ideology, and Belief Systems!This course provides a review of anthropological approaches to religion, ideology and belief systems with comparative examples from several cultures. !3!
ANTH415!Economic Anthropology!This course is an introduction to the field of economic anthropology looking at social and cultural contexts for processes of production, distribution, and consumption. Contemporary issues such as development will be explored. !3!
ANTH416!Archaeological Survey and Mapping!Course participants will learn about the archaeological survey, from both the academic perspective, and from the perspective of professional consulting archaeology. Students will become proficient at map reading, compassing, sampling strategies in forest and non-forest environments, and recognizing cultural features pertinent to the area. Participants will learn skills necessary for potential employment with professional archaeology firms. This will include observing protocols with First Nation communities and liaising with government and corporate entities. Where possible, students will have an opportunity to work for a few days with professional consultants. !6!
ANTH417!Excavation and Field Interpretation in Archaeology!Excavation forms a central aspect of archaeology. As part of this course, students and community members will participate in a 6-8 week excavation of an archaeological locality. This will involve initial set-up of the area, excavation and record-keeping, and basic field laboratory procedures. In addition to "hands-on" participation, daily seminar discussion will be mandatory; topics will center on each day's survey and excavation results. These sessions will be interdisciplinary, reflecting the interests of the instructors, community members, visiting researchers and students. Topics will invariably focus on geomorphology, lithic artifacts, zooarchaeology, paleoethnobotany, paleoecology, oral traditions and Traditional Use, and the social context of conducting archaeology. The field school will often take place in remote localities in British Columbia and elsewhere, and so students may have to live in a field camp situation. In addition to basic tuition, there may be additional fees to cover camp and transportation costs. !3,6!
ANTH418!Archaeology and First Nations!This course introduces students to the value of ethnographic information (including oral history, place names documentation, traditional technology, subsistence, and traditional  use activities),the interpretation of archaeological data, and construction of First Nations (pre)history. Anth 418-3 is normally taken in conjunction with Anth 416-6 and Anth 417-(3-6).!3!
ANTH419!Political and Legal Anthropology!This course provides a comparative study of power, political organization; leadership; non-centralized and centralized political systems' social control; and cross-cultural study of law. Contemporary issues relevant to the north will be addressed, for example self-government and sovereignty. !3!
ANTH420!Races, Racism, and Human Biology!This seminar course investigates the biological basis of human diversity and difference. It deals with the origin and mechanisms of human population variation, the nature of racial and racist studies in both historical and social context, and the question of race as a valid subject of scientific inquiry. !3!
ANTH421!Ethnographic Field Methods!A project-based seminar in which students will actualize field methods in ethnographic research, in addition to closely examining questions of ethical research and community participation in ethnographic research.  This course consists of at least three weeks of classroom instruction in a field location and will emphasize the actualization of conventional ethnographic methods and procedures in an actual field setting.  Students will be expected to participate in a larger field project and to gain direct experience in field methods while being sensitized to the requirements of ethical research and community involvement in ethnography. !3,6!
ANTH422!Ethnographic Research Project!A project-based course in which students shall examine and compare selected aspects of cultures and peoples before integrating this acquired knowledge to design and carry out a major research project arising from the field experience. The ethnographic material covered shall be appropriate to the field school's locality and/or general research topic. !3,6!
ANTH423!Urban Anthropology!This course provides a review of the anthropological approaches to and the social theory of contemporary urban society in the local, national and global contexts of the modern world. Contemporary issues relevant to the North will be addressed. !3!
ANTH425!Introduction to Zooarchaeology!This lab course introduces students to the study of animal bones found in arachaeological contexts. The first part of this course focuses on animal bone identification, while the second part centers on theoretical aspects of animal use by pre-Industrial human societies. As part of this course, students may have to prepare animal skeletons. !3!ANTH301
ANTH430!Stone Tools in Archaeology!Stone tools are the most ubiquitous type of artifact found around the world. This lab-seminar course focuses on methods and techniques for analyzing stone tools, and includes a strong theoretical component on stone tool production and use in pre-Industrial societies. Weekly labs will focus on analytical procedures, and in addition students are expected to complete assigned readings and participate in discussions. !3!ANTH301
ANTH440!Internship!3,6!
ANTH450!Undergraduate Thesis in Anthropology!3,6!
ANTH451!Traditional Use Studies!An advanced seminar on traditional use studies, their use, application, and development.  The seminar will examine the origins and development of this field, review case studies recent applications, and contemporary policies. !3!
ANTH460!Anthropology Capstone!This course engages students in the contemporary methodological and theoretical debates, and ideological challenges that face anthropologists today. Topics range from ethical considerations over the construction and ownership of knowledge to the practical challenges of how to set up a field/research project. This course prepares students to work within this ever-changing discipline through reinforcing the interlinked nature of sociocultural, biological and archaeological inquiry. Using an integrative approach, this course illustrates how our diverse theory, methods and practice may work together to challenge established rhetoric and create innovative ideas about the past, present and future.!3!
ANTH498!Special Topics in Anthropology!3,6!
ANTH499!Independent Study!3,6!
ANTH500!Method and Theory Seminar!An examination of current developments within the subdiscipline in which the student is taking the honour's program. Developed in consultation with and supervised by a member of the Anthropology faculty, the aim is as much to explore where linkages do and do not exist across Anthropology's subdisciplines as it is to understand the state of the art of the chosen subdiscipline. The course will conclude with a seminar discussion developed and directed by the student, open to all Anthropology faculty and the students' peers. !3!
ANTH501!Research Prospectus!In consultation with the supervisor, the student will design an original research project which will form the core of the Honour's thesis. The design will be presented as a colloquium open to the university community. !3!ANTH500
ANTH502!Honours Thesis!In accordance with the program guidelines for thesis projects, the student will present the results of their project in a paper of 12,500 - 15,000 words, to be evaluated by the thesis supervisor and an outside reader. Successful completion of the Honours thesis course will be based on the quality of written work, as well as an oral defense open to the university community. !6!ANTH501
ARTS101!Learning Strategies!Learning Strategies. This course helps students identify their strengths and weaknesses as learners, master essential academic learning strategies, identify appropriate career goals and majors, and make a successful transition to university. !3!
ARTS102!Research Writing!This course complements ARTS 101-3 and focuses primarily on skills associated with effective research writing techniques. The course also focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for the productions of university-level, library-based research papers. Using the library, mastering computers, reviewing grammar, and presenting findings orally are integral components of the process.!3!
BCMB255!Biochemistry Lab I!This is a laboratory-based course in which students explore basic biochemical and molecular biological laboratory techniques. Topics include buffers, calculations in biochemistry, enzyme kinetics, and purification of carbohydrates and proteins. Techniques include centrifugation, chromatography, spectrophotometry, and electrophoresis.!0,2!CHEM201,AND,CHEM204
BCMB306!Intermediary Metabolism!This lecture-based course emphasizes the importance of biochemical pathways and macromolecules in physiological systems. The goal of the course is to impart an understanding of metabolism on a cellular scale and the macroscopic implications of impairments in the metabolic pathways. Topics include the metabolism of amino acids, lipids, carbohydrates, nucleotides and how these pathways are interrelated at tissue and organ levels. !3!CHEM204
BCMB308!Biochemistry Lab II!This laboratory-based course covers modern biochemical and molecular biological laboratory techniques. Topics include purification and characterization of proteins, DNA and RNA. Laboratory techniques include centrifugation, chromatography, enzyme spectrophotometry, gel electrophoresis of DNA, RNA and proteins, restriction endonuclease digestion and analysis, Western blotting, IMAC and ELISA. !0,3!CHEM255,OR,BCMB255,AND,CHEM204,OR,CHEM220
BCMB340!Physical Biochemistry!This lecture-based course allows students to explore the physical basis of biochemistry through in-depth study of some of the most important biochemical phenomena in nature. The concepts of entropy, enthalpy, and equilibria are discussed in the context of repressor function, photosynthesis, and ATP synthesis. Other topics include the physical basis of biochemical techniques such as centrifugation, electrophoresis, and spectroscopy. !3!PHYS101,OR,PHYS111,AND,CHEM204,AND,CHEM255,OR,BCMB255
BCMB401!Basic Science of Oncology!This is a lecture-based course designed to provide insight into  the biological chemistry of cancer. Major topics include chemical carcinogenesis, genomicinstability, oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes, cell growth, apoptosis, tumor progression and metastasis, tumor angiogenesis, hormones, viruses, and drug resistance. This course also provides an in-depth look at the advanced technology used in controlling the disease, including immunotherapy and therapeutic approaches for controlling gene expression.!3!BIOL311
BCMB402!Macromolecular Structure!This is a lecture-based coruse designed to provide students with an understanding of the theory behind structural techniques used in biochemical laboratories. Topics include X-ray crystallography, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and electron microscopy. Students are expected to develop an understanding of the theory and application of these techniques and technical considerations. Students also learn how to judge the quality of data.!3!CHEM204
BCMB403!Advanced Nucleic Acids!This is a lecture-based course designed to provide in-depth knowledge on advanced topics in nucleic acid biochemistry. Topics include mechanistic analysis of nucleic acid metabolism; the RNA world hypothesis and theories of the origin of life; epigenetics; specificity and role of polymerases and repair pathways; replication and recombination mechanisms; RNA structural motifs and physical processing in gene expression; structure and function of non-coding RNA; silencing and micro RNA; catalytic RNA molecules; and technological applications of RNA.!3!CHEM204
BCMB404!Proteins and Enzymology!This lecture-based course provides knowledge of contemporary protein biochemistry and emphasizes the importance and role of enzymes in biochemistry and molecular biology.  Topics include the structure and function of proteins, protein biotechnology, mechanisms of enzyme action, kinetic analysis of enzymes and regulation of protein activity.!3!CHEM204
BCMB405!Topics in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology!This course considers selected advanced topics in biochemistry. Topics depend on instructor and student interest and normally focus on material not dealt with in other courses. Note: Credit may be granted for both 400- and 600-level offerings of Topics in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology courses, and either the 400- or 600-level courses or a combination of both may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours, provided the content of the independent offerings of the courses is sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or College Dean).!3!BCMB330,OR,CHEM330,AND,BCMB307,OR,CHEM307,AND,BCMB340,OR,CHEM340
BCMB430!Undergraduate Thesis!This is a laboratory-based undergraduate research thesis, designed for students with serious research interests. This course includes an oral presentation of research results. Students must have completed at least 90 credit hours of study and be a BCMB major.  The thesis may be taken over one or two semesters. !6!
BCMB499!Independent Study!This course concentrates on a particular topic agreed upon by the student and a member of the BCMB faculty. It may be repeated to a maximum of six credit hours. Credit may be granted for both 400- and 600- level offerings of the course provided the content is sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or Dean).!1,6!
BIOL101!Introductory Biology I!An introduction to the biological sciences including nature of life, cell structure, function, development, metabolism, genetics and evolutionary theory. BIOL 101-4 and BIOL 102-4 are equivalent to BIOL 100-4 prior to Fall 2000 Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components if applicable. !0,4!
BIOL102!Introductory Biology II!A survey of living organisms, plant and animal form and function, ecology and population biology. BIOL 101-4 and BIOL 102-4 are equivalent to BIOL 100-4 prior to Fall 2000. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components if applicable. !0,4!,OR,BIOL101
BIOL110!Introductory Ecology!This course is designed to introduce non-science majors to ecological systems. Principles of ecology, biotic and abiotic conditions, population, community and ecosystem structure, human impacts on these systems, and basic concepts of conservation and preservation of ecosystems. !0,3!
BIOL111!Introductory Ecology Laboratory!This laboratory course complements BIOL 110-3 Introductory Ecology, and provides field and laboratory experience in introductory ecological sciences.!1!BIOL110
BIOL201!Ecology!This course provides students with an understanding of the relationship of the environment to organisms, principles of animal and plant ecology, populations, communities, ecosystems and human ecology.!0,3!BIOL102,AND,BIOL101,OR,BIOL100
BIOL202!Invertebrate Zoology!Systematics, development and evolution of the invertebrates. !0,3!BIOL102,AND,BIOL101,OR,BIOL100
BIOL203!Microbiology!Classification and biology of prokaryotic and eukaryotic micro-organisms. Techniques for culture and applications to forestry, agriculture, medicine and industry. !0,3!BIOL101,AND,BIOL102,OR,BIOL100
BIOL204!Plant Biology!The interrelationships between form and function of the living plant, including systematics, development, physiology and evolution. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!BIOL102,AND,BIOL101,OR,BIOL100
BIOL210!Genetics!This course emphasizes principles of both modern and classical genetics. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and tutorial components.!0,3!BIOL102,AND,BIOL101,OR,BIOL100
BIOL301!Systematic Botany!This course introduces students to plant taxonomy and biodiversity, including principles of systematic botany, nomenclature and classification. Special attention is given to the identification of the native regional flora. Students contemplating registration in this course should consult with the instructor before the end of the previous spring term regarding the making of a summer collection for study during the course. This course includes scheduled field trips as a required course component. !0,3!BIOL101,AND,BIOL102
BIOL302!Limnology!Ecology of aquatic systems, their chemical, physical and biological characteristics. !0,3!BIOL201
BIOL304!Plants, Society and the Environment!This course explores the interactions between plants and humans, and how plants and their essential services are altered by human activities and the environment. Lectures and labs permit student-driven exploration of how plants, society and the environment are integrated. Students will investigate the underlying mechanisms of plant function and adaptation to address present-day environmental issues such as rising greenhouse gas concentrations, disturbance events, and biological invasions. !0,3!BIOL204
BIOL307!Ichthyology and Herpetology!The identification, comparative anatomy and evolution of fishes, amphibians and reptiles. Particular reference is made to species endemic to British Columbia. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!BIOL102,AND,BIOL101,OR,BIOL100
BIOL308!Ornithology and Mammalogy!The identification, comparative anatomy and evolution of birds and mammals. Particular reference is made to species endemic to British Columbia. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!BIOL102,AND,BIOL101,OR,BIOL100
BIOL311!Cell and Molecular Biology!Cell and Molecular Biology. Cellular structure and function, molecular genetics, genome organization, and gene regulation in eukaryotic and prokaryotic organisms. !0,3!BIOL210,AND,CHEM204,OR,CHEM220
BIOL312!Molecular Cell Physiology!This course examines the molecular basis of cellular processes from cell-division to cell signalling, cell and tissue interactions, cellular mechanisms of development, cell differentiation, and the immune system. !3!BIOL311
BIOL315!Animal Diseases and Parasites!Biological aspects of infectious diseases, parasites and environmental contaminants in wild vertebrate animal populations. !0,3!BIOL307,OR,BIOL308
BIOL318!Fungi and Lichens!This course uses lectures, field and laboratory exercises to introduce students to the diversity of the Fungal Kingdom, including lichenized fungi. Students learn to recognize fungal and lichen structures and identify taxa. Emphasis is placed upon fungi and lichens in their natural environments, their ecology and physiology, and their importance to ecosystem function. Field trips and labs teach students to collect, isolate and identify fungi and lichens. !0,3!BIOL101,AND,BIOL102
BIOL321!Animal Physiology!Basic animal functions and physiology. Operation and integration of major life support and reproductive systems with emphasis on vertebrates. !0,3!BIOL307,OR,BIOL308
BIOL322!Entomology!Diversity, structure, function, evolution, behaviour and importance of insects.  Students intending to take the course should contact the instructor as early as possible for information and materials regarding the required insect collection. !3!BIOL202,OR,FSTY307
BIOL323!Evolutionary Biology!This course covers the mechanisms and processes of evolution of biological organisms. It discusses the evolutionary principles from Darwinism to molecular evolution. !0,3!BIOL201,AND,BIOL210
BIOL325!Ecological Analyses!This course is an introduction to the application of analytical methods for addressing common ecological problems. Particular emphasis is placed on: sampling design, formulating hypotheses, statistical inference and the writing of abstracts. Students learn to analyze data by applying the scientific method to ecological approach. !0,3!BIOL201,AND,MATH240,OR,STAT240
BIOL333!Field School!This is an experiential course designed for students to focus on theoretical and practical skills involved in the field. Each field school is designed to incorporate the theories, models and other concepts introduced in the classroom and bring them into greater clarity by examining them in a real world setting. This course may be repeated with the permission of the instructor if the subject matter and course location differ substantially.!3!
BIOL350!Ethnobotany!Native uses of indigenous plants. !3!
BIOL402!Aquatic Plants!Classification, physiology, ecology, and environmental implications of aquatic plants. Both marine and freshwater systems are covered with emphasis on the aquatic plants of British Columbia. Credit not available for BIOL 402-3 and 632-3. !0,3!BIOL204
BIOL404!Plant Ecology!The ecology of terrestrial plants and ecosystems. Structure, function, classification, and analytical tools for describing the dynamic behaviour of plant communities. !0,3!BIOL201,OR,BIOL204
BIOL406!Fish Ecology!The general life history, ecology, zoogeography and habitats of freshwater, anadromous and marine fishes. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!BIOL307,AND,BIOL201
BIOL410!Population and Community Ecology!This course is an advanced treatment of population and community ecology including theoretical and applied aspects of structure and dynamics. !0,3!BIOL325
BIOL411!Conservation Biology!This course provides a broad exposure to the theory and techniques necessary for understanding and preventing threats and declines to biological diversity. The science and application of conservation biology draw from a wide range of disciplines; thus, course and lab materials integrate perspectives from both the natural and social sciences. Students are advised to take this course in their final year of studies. !0,3!BIOL201
BIOL412!Wildlife Ecology!The general ecology and biology of wildlife species, including physiology, behaviour, nutrition and endocrinology. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!BIOL201,AND,BIOL308
BIOL413!Wildlife Management!Management criteria for reptiles, amphibians, birds and mammals. Emphasis on the socio-economic aspects of management. Communication processes are addressed. Credit not available for both 413-3 and 605-3. !0,3!BIOL410,AND,BIOL412
BIOL414!Fisheries Management!Management of freshwater and anadromous fish of British Columbia. Credit not available for both BIOL 414-3 and 602-3. !0,3!BIOL406
BIOL420!Animal Behaviour!Adaptive significance and evolutionary basis of behaviour patterns exhibited by the major animal phyla. !0,3!BIOL202,OR,BIOL307,OR,BIOL308
BIOL421!Insects, Fungi and Society!The historical, social and economic importance of insects and fungi to human society, including underlying biological and ecological principles. !3!BIOL102,AND,BIOL101,OR,BIOL100
BIOL423!Molecular Evolution and Ecology!This course is lecture and laboratory based and focuses on the evolution of macromolecules, the reconstruction of the evolutionary history of species, populations, or genes, and the use of genetic information to gain insights into the ecology of the species. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!BIOL323
BIOL424!Molecular Cell Physiology!A molecular basis of cellular processes from cell-division to cell signaling, cell and tissue interactions, cellular mechanisms of development, cell differentiation, and the immune system. !3!BIOL311
BIOL425!Applied Genetics and Biotechnology!Introduction to advanced genetic laboratory techniques and processes.  Lectures will cover applications of genetic techniques and biotechnology as well as ethics issues regarding the use of these technologies.  Specific topics will include: animal forensics, recombinant and transgenic theory, genomics/bioformatics, biotechnology and molecular ecology. !0,3!BIOL311
BIOL440!Internship!May be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours). !2,6!
BIOL498!Special Topics!This course covers selected biological topics and may be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours). !3,6!
BIOL499!Independent Study!May be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours). !1,6!
CHEM100!General Chemistry I!The first course in a two-course lecture-based sequence of chemistry courses emphasizing the basic principles of chemistry. Topics include: classification of matter, periodic properties of elements, atomic and molecular structure, stoichiometry, chemical reactions, thermochemistry, chemical bonding and an introduction to organic chemistry. Students requiring the first year laboratory courses in their program of study are encouraged to enrol in CHEM 120-1 concurrently. !3!MATH115
CHEM101!General Chemistry II!The second course in a two-course lecture-based sequence of chemistry courses emphasizing the basic principles of chemistry. Topics include: intermolecular forces, properties of solutions, reaction kinetics, chemical equilibrium, acids and bases, applications of aqueous equilibria, entropy and free energy, and electrochemistry. Students requiring the first year laboratory courses in their program of study are encouraged to enrol in CHEM 121-1 concurrently. !3!CHEM100,AND,MATH115
CHEM110!Chemistry of Everyday Life!A lecture-based chemistry course for non-science majors which presents the chemistry of substances of our everyday world and discusses real-world societal issues that have important chemistry components.  Environmentally relevant topics including the ozone layer and its depletion, global warming, and acid rain will be studied.  The use of energy in our society in its various forms will be looked at from a chemical perspective.  The importance and implications of using man-made materials and drugs will be discussed.  A discussion of these topics will give students a fundamental background in chemistry, and allow them to better understand issues of relevance to our modern industrial society. !3!
CHEM120!General Chemistry Laboratory I!A laboratory half-course designed to accompany CHEM 100-3 and introduce basic chemistry laboratory procedures. Experiments will be performed which complement the material presented in CHEM 100-3. !1!CHEM100
CHEM121!General Chemistry Laboratory II!A laboratory half-course designed to accompany CHEM 101-3 and introduce basic chemistry laboratory procedures. Experiments will be performed which complement the material presented in CHEM 101-3. !1!CHEM120,AND,CHEM101
CHEM200!Physical Chemistry I!Fundamental concepts of classical thermodynamics, thermochemistry, chemical and phase equilibria, equilibrium, phase equilibrium, chemical kinetics. !0,3!CHEM101,AND,CHEM121,AND,MATH101
CHEM201!Organic Chemistry I!A lecture-based course providing an introduction to the structure, nomenclature, classification, properties and reactions of the major functional groups of organic compounds. Examples of the syntheses and the reactions of the major functional groups will be given, supported by reaction mechanisms where appropriate. Students requiring the second year Organic Chemistry laboratory courses in their program of study are encouraged to enrol in CHEM 250-1 concurrently. !3!CHEM101,AND,CHEM121
CHEM202!Inorganic Chemistry I!An introductory course in inorganic chemistry, focusing on structure and bonding, crystal field and molecular orbital theory and the chemistry of the main group. !3!CHEM101,AND,CHEM121
CHEM203!Organic Chemistry II!A continuation of the topics covered in CHEM 201-3 with emphasis on the mechanistic aspect of organic chemical reactions. Students requiring the second year Organic Chemistry Laboratory courses in their program of study are encouraged to enrol in CHEM 251-1 concurrently. !3!CHEM201
CHEM204!Introductory Biochemistry!This is a lecture-based course designed to introduce the basic principles of biological chemistry, focusing on the structure, composition and role of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids in living systems. Other major topics include the nature and function of enzymes, principles of bioenergetics and the energy-trapping metabolic pathways and their regulation in animals and plants. !3!CHEM201,AND,BIOL101,AND,BIOL102,AND,CHEM203
CHEM210!Analytical Chemistry I!This is a laboratory course (two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week), designed to introduce the discipline of analytical chemistry. Topics include data handling (basic statistics, use of spreadsheets, graphing techniques) electronic spectroscopy (UV-Vis, fluorescence, AA, ICP), and separation techniques (column chromatography, TLC, HPLC, GC).!0,3!CHEM101,AND,CHEM121
CHEM220!Organic and Biochemistry!A lecture-based course designed to present an introductory sequence of organic chemistry and biochemistry. An understanding of organic chemistry is required to properly understand biochemistry. This course treats organic chemistry in enough depth to make biochemistry understandable. !3!CHEM101
CHEM221!Organic and Biochemistry Lab!A laboratory-based course designed to accompany and complement CHEM 220-3.  This course will introduce common laboratory techniques as well as introduce some of the properties and reactions of organic and biochemical compounds. !1!CHEM121,AND,CHEM220
CHEM250!Organic Chemistry Lab I!A laboratory-based course providing an introduction to the techniques used in organic chemistry. !1!CHEM201
CHEM251!Organic Chemistry Lab II!A laboratory-based course focusing on the practical aspects of Organic Chemistry. !1!CHEM250,AND,CHEM203
CHEM300!Physical Chemistry II!Fundamental concepts in statistical mechanics, reaction theory, chemical kinetics and surface chemistry. !3!CHEM200,AND,MATH101
CHEM301!Advanced Organic Chemistry I!An advanced course emphasising the structural, physical and mechanistic aspects of organic reactions. !3!CHEM203
CHEM302!Environmental Chemistry I!The chemistry of the environment, including considerations of the physical processes in the air, soil and water and the influence, monitoring, and removal of pollutants from the environment. !0,4!CHEM200,OR,CHEM201,OR,CHEM202,OR,CHEM203,OR,CHEM204,OR,CHEM210,OR,CHEM220
CHEM303!Quantum Chemistry!This course covers techniques of quantum mechanics and their application to problems relevant to chemistry. Methods such as the variation method, perturbation theory, and Hartree-Fock Self-Consistent Field theory, are applied to simple chemical systems. The extension of these to more complex systems is explored.!0,3!PHYS205,AND,CHEM200
CHEM304!Advanced Organic Chemistry II!An advanced course studying modern methods in synthetic organic chemistry. !3!CHEM203
CHEM305!Physical Chemistry III!Fundamental concepts of quantum mechanics and spectroscopy. !0,3!CHEM200,AND,MATH101
CHEM310!Analytical Chemistry II!This is a laboratory course (two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week) designed as a sequel to CHEM 210-3. Topics include functional group identification in organic and inorganic molecules (IR spectroscopy), mass spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy. An emphasis is placed on the structural elucidation of molecules.!3!CHEM203,AND,CHEM210
CHEM311!Analytical Chemistry III!A laboratory course (two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week) designed to augment CHEM 210-3 and CHEM 310-3.  Topics include pH and ion specific electrodes, electrochemical methods and crystallography. !0,3!CHEM203,AND,CHEM210
CHEM312!Organic Chemistry Lab III!A laboratory-based course (one hour lecture, six hours lab) teaching the various techniques used in modern organic chemistry, with an emphasis on synthetic methods.  This course is designed to complement the material taught in CHEM 301-3 and 304-3. !3!CHEM301,OR,CHEM304
CHEM315!Physical Chemistry Lab!This is a laboratory course in physical chemistry consisting of 6 hours of laboratory work weekly. The course covers the fundamental aspects of physical chemistry such as spectoscopy, thermodynamics, equilibrium, and kinetics. !3!CHEM200
CHEM320!Inorganic Chemistry II!This lecture-based course is focused on symmetry and group theory, along with the organometallic chemistry of the transition elements.!3!CHEM202
CHEM321!Inorganic Chemistry III!This lecture-based course is focused on the general chemical principles within transition elements, along with their descriptive chemistry. Bio-Inorganic Chemistry is also examined.!3!CHEM202
CHEM322!Inorganic Chemistry Lab!A laboratory-based course (one hour lecture, six hour lab) examining the descriptive side of modern inorganic chemistry, including organometallic and bio-inorganic chemistry.  This course will provide both general and specific laboratory skills. !3!CHEM202
CHEM400!Topics in Environmental Chem!This course considers advanced and selected topics in chemistry. Topics depend on instructor and student interest and nominally focus on advanced material not dealt with in other courses.Note: Credit may be granted for both 400- and 600- level offerings of Topics in Chemistry courses, and either the 400- or 600- level offerings or a combination of both may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours, provided the content of the independent offerings of the courses is sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or College Dean).!3!CHEM302
CHEM401!Chemistry Seminar!A workshop-based course emphasizing oral and written communication in the sciences. Topics include preparation of visuals, lecture and seminar presentation, scientific writing (including grant applications and scientific articles). !3!
CHEM402!Topics in Organic Chemistry!This course considers advanced and selected topics in organic chemistry. Topics depend on instructor and student interest and normally focus on advanced material not dealt with in other courses.Note: Credit may be granted for both CHEM 400 and 600 level offerings of Topics in Chemistry courses, and either the 400 or 600 level or a combination of both may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours, provided the content of the independent offerings of the courses is sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or College Dean). !3!CHEM301,OR,CHEM304
CHEM403!Topics in Inorganic Chemistry!This course considers advanced and selected topics in inorganic chamistry. Topics depend on instructor and student interest and normally focus on advanced material not dealt with in other courses. Note: Credit may be granted for both 400 and 600 level offerings of Topics in Chemistry courses, and either the 400 or 600 level or a combination of both may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours, provided the content of the independent offerings of the courses is sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or College Dean). !3!CHEM320,OR,CHEM321
CHEM404!Topics in Physical Chemistry!This course considers advanced and selected topics in physical chemistry. Topics depend on instructor and student interest and normally focus on advanced material not dealt with in other courses. Note: Credit may be granted for both 400 and 600 level offerings of Topics in Chemistry courses, and either the 400 or 600 level or a combination of both may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours, provided the content of the independent offerings of the courses is sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or College Dean). !3!CHEM300,OR,CHEM305
CHEM405!Topics in Biochemistry!This course considers advanced and selected topics in biochemistry. Topics depend on instructor and student interest and normally focus on advanced material not dealt with in other courses.Note: Credit may be granted for both 400 and 600 level offerings of Topics in Chemistry courses, and either the 400 or 600 level or a combination of both may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours, provided the content of the independent offerings of the courses is sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or College Dean). !3!CHEM330,AND,CHEM307
CHEM406!Advanced Laboratory I!The two courses, CHEM 406-3 and 407-3, are intended to act as capstone lab courses, providing experience with a wide variety of advanced synthetic, analytical and physical techniques.  The courses are taken separately but a common set of experiments will be available throughout. !3!
CHEM407!Advanced Laboratory II!The two courses, CHEM 406-3 and 407-3, are intended to act as capstone lab courses, providing experience with a wide variety of advanced synthetic, analytical and physical techniques.  The courses are taken separately but a common set of experiments will be available throughout. !3!CHEM406
CHEM408!Environmental Chemistry II!An advanced treatment of selected topics in environmental chemistry. Credit may be granted for both 400 and 600 level offerings of the course provided the content is sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or Dean).!3!CHEM302
CHEM410!Topics in Analytical Chemistry!This course provides an advanced treatment of selected topics in analytical chemistry such as spectroscopy, separation technology and analytical instrumentation.  Credit may be granted for both 400 and 600 level offerings of Topics in Chemistry courses, and either the 400 or 600 level or a combination of both may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credits hours, provided the content of the independent offerings of the courses are sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or College Dean). !3!CHEM310
CHEM430!Undergraduate Thesis!In this course students pursue an independent research project under the direct supervision of a faculty member. Students are expected to design and implement a research methodology, analyze data, and present findings in thesis format. The final grade in this course is based in part on a written research proposal, a written thesis, a public presentation of research results, and the evaluation of the thesis by a second reader. The thesis is normally completed over the September and January semesters.!6!
CHEM499!Independent Study!This course concentrates on particular topics agreed upon by the student and a member of the Chemistry faculty.  it may be repeated for a maximum of six credit hours. Credit may be granted for both 400- and 600- level offerings of the course provided the content is sufficiently different (as determined by the Program Chair or Dean).!1,6!
COMM100!Introduction to Canadian Business!This courses is an overview of the Canadian business environment, forms of organizations, the management function, and an introduction to the functional areas of business management. The course includes the challenges and opportunities facing small business. !0,3!
COMM210!Financial Accounting!Introduction to the construction and interpretation of financial reports prepared primarily for external use. Students need a basic understanding of a spreadsheet application. !3!COMM100
COMM211!Managerial Accounting!Introduction to the development and use of accounting information for managerial planning and control and the development of cost information for financial reports. Problems in managerial accounting using spreadsheet tools. !3!COMM210
COMM220!Financial Management I!Deals with functions of the financial manager within the corporate setting. Topics include the Canadian financial environment, forms of business organizations and taxation, financial forecasting and planning, financial statement analysis, time value of money, capital budgeting under certainty, working capital management and short, intermediate and long-term financing. !3!COMM100,AND,COMM210,AND,ECON205,OR,MATH242,OR,MATH240,OR,STAT240
COMM230!Organizational Behaviour!This course provides an introduction to the study of people and groups in organizations. Topics include perceptions, personality, learning, work motivation, job attitudes, group dynamics and leadership.!3!COMM100
COMM240!Introduction to Marketing!This course is an introduction to the study of marketing in the context of social, consumer, and managerial processes. In this course, students study how marketing decisions concerning the choice of target markets, the development of products/services, price, promotion and distribution strategies influence the evolution of the exchange process and the satisfaction of buyer needs. !3!COMM100
COMM251!Introduction to Management Science!This course is a study of analytical approaches in management science that assist managerial decision-making under conditions of both certainty and uncertainty. Attention is given to the formulation of quantitative models from a variety of areas. Topics include linear programming, transportation/assignment problems, integer programming, multi-criteria decisions, dynamic programming, decision analysis, queueing theory, and simulation.!3!ECON205,OR,MATH242,OR,MATH240,OR,STAT240,AND,MATH150,OR,MATH220,AND,MATH152,OR,MATH100
COMM300!Introduction to Business Law!This course provides an introduction to the general principles of law relating to contract and tort. Special contracts include: agency, assignment, bailment, employment guarantee, insurance, negotiable instruments, sale of goods, and contracts creating a security interest in goods. Some aspects of the law relating to real property, partnership and corporations will be discussed. !3!COMM100
COMM302!Entrepreneurship!This course focuses on the processes and techniques required to convert ideas, inventions and innovations into profitable business undertakings. Students have the opportunity to develop a new venture business plan. !3!COMM240
COMM303!Introduction to International Business!Introduces the student to the global setting in which international business decisions are made. Emphasis is placed on the factors which are relevant to decision-making in a wide range of international business functions (e.g. marketing, finance, human resource management) and international business forms (e.g. export-import, foreign manufacturing, joint ventures). !3!COMM240
COMM304!Employment Law in Canada!The purpose of this course is to foster an understanding of the legal context of the relationship between employer and employee, and of the duties and responsibilities in that relationship.  The laws surrounding human rights, employment standards, health and safety, grievance and arbitration, and dismissal are examined. !3!COMM300,OR,POLS255
COMM305!Case Studies in Business!This course develops critical skills in the development and analysis of business cases.  The course includes the development of new cases, practical methodology for analysis and presentation of case studies in all areas of business.!3!
COMM310!Intermediate Financial Accounting I!An examination of financial accounting theory from the viewpoint of procedures, principles and professional requirements related to the measurement, recording and reporting of assets and related income and expenses for use by third parties. !3!COMM211
COMM311!Intermediate Financial Accounting II!Continuation of COMM 310-3. !3!COMM310
COMM312!Intermediate Managerial Accounting!The provisions and analysis of cost accounting information that will assist management in making operating decisions and in evaluating operations and performance. The utilization of statistical analysis and linear models is included. !3!COMM211
COMM313!Personal Taxation!Interpretation problems associated with the Income Tax Act and the provisions of the Act concerned with the computation of taxable income and tax payable by an individual are examined. !3!COMM210
COMM314!Corporate Taxation!The provisions of the Income Tax Act relating to the taxes payable by various types of corporate entities and trusts are considered. Application of the Act to business situations is examined in detail. !3!COMM313
COMM315!International Accounting!Examines the underlying causes of international accounting problems in terms of both internal financial control and external financial reporting. Emphasis is placed on understanding the environmental, social, economic and legal influences which have affected accounting evolution in various countries. !3!COMM210,AND,COMM211
COMM316!Financial Statement Analysis!Users of financial statements must be able to interpret financial reports, construct measures of financial performance and analyse the reporting choices made by companies.  Reading and interpreting financial statements is a skill that impacts almost any business decision.  This course focuses on application of accounting knowledge and reading and interpreting financial statements.!3!COMM220
COMM320!Financial Management II!This course deals with analytical techniques and broad issues of financial management. Topics include capital budgeting and uncertainty, risk and return, the capital assets pricing model and market efficiency, determination of discount rates for capital projects including the weighted average cost of capital, leasing options and applications to corporate finance, capital structure and dividend policy, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcy and reorganization.!3!COMM220,AND,MATH150,OR,MATH220,AND,MATH152,OR,MATH100
COMM321!Investments and Security Analysis!The principles and techniques of investing in securities are discussed. Material covered includes sources and analysis of investment information, evaluation of risks and returns associated with various financial instruments including futures and options. Security analysis including fundamental and technical analysis. !3!COMM320
COMM322!International Financial Management!An introduction to the various international financial markets and the problems, risks and opportunities involved in the financial management of multinational enterprises. Hedging of foreign exchange risk, international capital budgeting and import/export financing are among the topics covered. !3!COMM320
COMM323!Risk, Insurance and Financial Planning!Deals with the concepts of risk and business risk management, the various kinds of insurance including life, health and property and liability. Financial planning for the individual and employees including pension plans, taxation issues and real asset investment decisions including real estate. !3!COMM320
COMM330!Human Resource Management!The analysis, design, operation and management of HRM processes, their contribution to employee and organization effectiveness and the influence of organizational and external environment. The principal topics considered are HRM planning and its link to strategic planning, employment equity, staffing, training/development (including performance appraisal) and employee maintenance. The course views the management of human resources as the joint responsibility of line and HRM managers. !3!COMM230,AND,ECON205,OR,MATH242,OR,MATH240,OR,STAT240
COMM331!Organizational Theory!This course focuses on the structure of the organization, examining such determining factors as the organization's size, environment, technology and strategy. It also examines internal politics, conflict, decision-making, and culture from a macro perspective. !3!COMM230
COMM332!Business and Professional Ethics!This course focuses on ethical philosophies and their application to specific ethical issues of relevance to work organizations and to the demands of multiple stakeholders. !3!
COMM333!Women in Organizations!This seminar course examines the issues faced by women in the work force. Topics include women in non-traditional occupations and women as entrepreneurs. Individual, organizational and societal approaches to enhancing opportunities and quality of work life for working women are explored. !3!COMM230,AND,ECON100,AND,ECON101
COMM334!Strategic Human Resource Planning!This course examines the leadership role that a human resources professional plays in developing the organization's vision, goals, and strategies and the human resource initiatives that support these strategic directions. Students acquire capabilities in job analysis and human resources planning, which provides the informational foundation for all of human resources management. !3!COMM330
COMM335!Organizational Effectiveness!Students acquire the knowledge and skills to develop and implement programs for employee feedback and involvement to support organizational culture and goals.!3!COMM330
COMM340!Marketing Communication!A study of communication theory and its application to advertising and sales promotion decisions. An examination of the role of advertising in relation to the overall marketing strategy. !3!COMM240
COMM341!Sales Management!The study of management of the personal selling area, including an examination of the selling function, the sales manager, and sales management. !3!COMM240
COMM342!Services Marketing!Applies marketing management principles specifically to the service industries, including the financial services and tourism industries. !3!COMM240
COMM343!Behavioural Marketing!This course examines the psychological, social, and cultural factors that influence consumer cognition, feelings, attitudes and behaviour by introducing concepts, principles and theories drawn from marketing and related social science disciplines.  Students learn from a managerial decision- making perspective and investigate the implications of consumer behaviour for all stages of the marketing process, including product development, marketing communications, and post-sales services. !3!COMM240
COMM346!Internet Marketing!This course provides insights into the converging logic of traditional marketing in the information age from managerial and consumers' perspectives.  Students learn how to understand consumer internet behaviour, identify appropriate target segments, develop product opportunities, pricing structures, and distribution channels over the Internet, and execute marketing strategy in a computer-mediated environment. !3!COMM240,AND,CPSC250
COMM347!Marketing Channels and Retail Management!This course provides insights into marketing distribution systems, retailing and wholesaling as well as relevant legislation. Further, this course emphasizes the structure of retailing in Canada, and the retail management of location, layout, inventory, personnel, sales, promotion, financial control and pricing procedures. !3!COMM240
COMM350!Production and Operations Management!An introduction to the production/operations function with emphasis on the use of both qualitative and quantitative analysis to assist decision-making. Topics include forecasting, product design, capacity planning, process selection, facility location and layout, aggregate planning, material requirement planning, JIT, scheduling, inventory, management, project planning, statistical quality control and total quality management. !3!COMM251
COMM351!Management Information Systems!This course emphasizes the strategic  role of information systems in modern business. Topics include the technical foundations of information systems, the impact of information systems on business operations and decision-making, and the processes that are required for successful implementation of business information systems. !3!COMM100,AND,CPSC250,AND,ECON205,OR,MATH242,OR,MATH240,OR,STAT240
COMM352!e-business!The course provides an introduction to electronic business concepts and e-business strategies. The students study various e-business modesl and applications, their benefits and risks, infrastructure needs, Business-to-Business and Business-to-Customer strategies, and legal and ethical issues. An introduction to business intelligence tools is also provided. Students work in teams to develop an internet business plan and implement a prototype with emphasis on form validation, security, electronic payment systems, and linkage with backend databases.!3!CPSC250
COMM353!Business Data Communications and Networking!This course provides an understanding of basic data communications and networking concepts with emphasis on business computing. Topics covered include data transmission and encoding. Internet and Internet2, Network Layer model, network protocols, data privacy and security, and data communication hardware. Students learn about protocols and topologies of Local Area Networks (LANs), Wireless LANs, Wide Area Networks (WANs), Metropolitan Area Networks (MANs), and Backbone Networks (BNs). Students also engage in researching emerging technologies and present a case-study. !3!CPSC250
COMM400!Strategic Management!This integrative course focuses on the core concepts and analytical tools of strategic planning and implementation. The materials presented cover the changes in competitive markets and company strategies that are being driven by globalization and technological innovation.  The course includes extensive use of case analysis and features a wide range of business types and sizes.  Recommended: This course is open to Commerce students in their graduating year. !3!
COMM410!Accounting Theory!A critical examination of problem areas of current interest in financial accounting theory. Consideration of methods by which accounting theory is developed and examination of specific models including historical costs, resale price and price level adjustment models. !3!COMM311
COMM411!Advanced Management Accounting!Design of management planning and control systems. Development of depth of understanding in the quantitative techniques relevant to the managerial accountant. Consideration is given to cost analysis, transfer pricing and information for capital expenditure and inventory decisions. !3!COMM312
COMM412!Auditing!Principles of internal auditing, the nature of evidence, reporting requirements, standards in auditing. The philosophy of auditing, independence and ethics are also considered. !3!COMM311
COMM413!Accounting - Advanced Topics!Advanced and selected topics in accounting. The general content tends to focus on material not dealt with on a recurring basis in the regular course sequence. !3!COMM311,AND,COMM312
COMM414!Advanced Financial Accounting!An examination of accounting problems encountered in such areas as complex business organizations, intercorporate investments, foreign operations and foreign currency transactions, and not-for-profit operations. !3!COMM311
COMM420!Advanced Financial Management!Intensive treatment is given to selected areas of finance, including elements of both theory and practice with an emphasis on the role of financial strategy in the overall corporate business policy. Emphasis is placed on financial policy and strategy issues through discussion, case analysis and presentation covering a variety of topics. !3!COMM320,AND,COMM321
COMM421!Portfolio Theory and Management!Fundamentals of multi-asset portfolio construction and management including fixed-income portfolio strategies. The uses of derivative securities in portfolio management. Issues involved in setting investment objectives and performance evaluation. International investment and diversification. Asset allocation and contempory issues. !3!COMM320,AND,COMM321
COMM422!Management of Financial Institutions!The financial management issues of financial institutions such as chartered banks, insurance companies, trust companies, mortgage and loan companies, pension funds and investment companies. The regulatory environment and the asset and liability management techniques employed. !3!COMM321
COMM423!Financial Engineering!Study of futures, options, swaps and other complex derivative securities, application of option pricing theory to a broad range of corporate finance and investment decisions. !3!COMM320,AND,COMM321
COMM429!Finance: Advanced Topics!The examination and application of selected topics in finance. Topics depend upon instructor and student interest. !3!COMM320
COMM430!Organization Studies - Selected Topics!This course focuses on three to five topics related to the material presented in COMM 230-3 Organizational Behavior. As the course content may vary with each offering, students can consult the instructor/program for information concerning topics. !3!COMM230
COMM431!Industrial Relations!Industrial Relations. Canadian industrial and labour relations with emphasis on the labour-management relationship.  Topics include the basic elements of an industrial relations system, the social economic, legal and political environment in which participants interact, and the process of collective bargaining. !3!COMM330
COMM432!Cross-cultural Workplace Practices!Examines cross-cultural differences in management practices, industrial relations systems and human resource practices, including those pertaining to First Nations. It also includes a discussion of the management of diversity within North American organizations. !3!COMM330
COMM433!Recruitment, Selection and Retention!This course develops the knowledge and skills to recruit and select employees who will contribute to the success of an organization.  The concepts and techniques of recruitment, selection, orientation, and deployment are examined from legal, ethical, cultural, and strategic perspectives !3!COMM330,AND,COMM334
COMM434!Compensation!Students acquire the knowledge and skills to design compensation systems and benefit plans that will enable employees to fulfill their potential and contribute to the goals of an organization.  Specifically, students learn to design, implement, and evaluate compensation and benefit plans from legal, ethical, and strategic perspectives.!3!COMM334
COMM435!Organizational Learning, Development and Training!Students acquire the knowledge and skills to design training and development programs that will enable employees to fulfill their potential and contribute to the goals of an organization.  Specifically, students learn to design, implement, and evaluate training and development programs from legal, ethical, cultural, and strategic perspectives.!3!COMM334
COMM436!Workplace Health and Safety!In this course students will learn how to design, implement and evaluate health and safety programs to ensure the protection and well-being of employees.!3!COMM334
COMM437!Values-based Leadership!This course provides an overview of the literature on leadership throughout history and reviews the main leadership theories developed in the 20th and 21st centuries, with a focus on what makes a good leader, both in the sense of administrative or managerial effectiveness as well as in a moral sense. Models of successful leadership in both the public and private sector are explored through case studies. !3!COMM230
COMM439!HRM: Selected Topics!The examination and application of selected, current and emerging topics in human resources management. Topics may vary from semester to semester, depending on student and instructor interest. !3!COMM230,AND,COMM330
COMM440!Internship!3,6!
COMM441!International Marketing!The problems and opportunities of marketing in foreign environments are examined. The course focuses on the cultural, economic and geographic problems encountered in managing the marketing function from a Canadian manager's perspective. !3!COMM240
COMM442!Marketing Strategy!Using a marketing simulation, this course is designed to assist students in acquiring skill and experience in strategic marketing decision-making.  By understanding how changes in markets, industries, and organizational strengths/weaknesses create marketing opportunities and threats, students are exposed to the role of strategic marketing decision-maker.  In that role, they will learn to develop and execute creative target market and positioning strategies in a competitive environment. !3!COMM240,AND,COMM343
COMM443!Marketing Research!Assists students in acquiring an understanding of basic marketing research concepts and practice that facilitates the systematic specification, collection, and analysis of information for marketing decision-making.  The course is organized around an applied research project in which students will be responsible for conceiving, executing, analyzing and reporting the results of an original marketing research project for a business client. !3!COMM240,AND,COMM343,AND,ECON205,OR,MATH242,OR,MATH240,OR,STAT240
COMM449!Advanced Topics in Marketing!Advanced and selected topics in marketing.  Topics depend on instructor and student interest and focus on material not dealt with in the regular course sequence. !3!COMM240
COMM450!Total Quality Management!This course examines the basic concepts and tools of total quality management, strategy quality planning, management of process (technology) quality, quality value and engineering, loss function and quality level, statistical quality control, quality and operation results, Taguchi methods, Just-In-Time, preventive maintenance, and other aspects of quality management. !3!ECON205,OR,MATH242,OR,MATH240,OR,STAT240
COMM451!Project Management!This course considers behavioral and structural aspects of projects, study of project life cycles, project planning, scheduling, budgeting, resource loading, resource leveling, resource planning, and cost estimation and crashing, project monitoring and controlling, project evaluation, auditing and termination. Project management software are the practical aspects of the course. !3!COMM350
COMM452!Logistics and Supply Chain Management!This course introduces students to the application of logistics and supply chain management concepts. The course examines the nature and scope of supply chain, logistics framework, purchasing and procurement, processing, transportation, warehousing, and distribution logistics, role of information and simulation technology, reverse logistics and contemporary issues.!3!COMM350
COMM498!Special Topics in Business Administration!3,6!
COMM499!Independent Study!3,6!
CORE100!Effective University Writing and Communication!This first year course covers both writing and speaking skills. It will not be remedial; instead it will address academic writing, critical thinking, reading, library skills, and the theory and practice of speaking in formal settings. !3!
CORE101!Humanities!A study of answers to the question "what sort of people are we?"; that is, where have we come from, what are our cultural backgrounds, the sources of our ideas, our philosophies, our faiths, our art, our civil organizations, and our economic structures? !3!
CORE103!Social Sciences!A study of the forms of societal and economic interaction and the types of communities - local, regional, national and international - of which we are a part. !3!
CPSC100!Computer Programming I!This course introduces the fundamental concepts of programming from and object-oriented perspective.  Topics include fundamentals of programming style, syntax, data types, arithmetic and logical expressions, assignments, control structures, arrays, functions, file i/o, classes, inheritance, and dynamic storage allocation.  The course emphasizes the development of problem solving and programming skills, including testing techniques and the use of debugging tools.  Students must also register in a lab and a tutorial section.  Credit will not be awarded for both CPSC 110-3 and CPSC 100-4.  Refer to major for required course. Please note: You must register separately in lecture, tutorial, and lab compenents .!0,4!MATH115
CPSC101!Computer Programming II!This course is a continuation of CPSC 100-4.  Objects, classes, inheritance and polymorphism are discussed in depth.  Other topics include object-orieted program design and development using principles of software engineering; modeling with UML; GUI components and graphics; dynamic storage allocation, the heap, and garbage collection; run-time support for program execution; and the use of standard libraries.  Students work cooperatively to complete a medium-sized project.  This course requires both tutorial and laboratory components.  Please note: You must register separately in lecture lab, and tutorial components.!0,4!CPSC100,AND,CPSC141
CPSC110!Introduction to Computer Systems and Programing!The course provides an introduction to computer systems and programing, concepts in computer architecture including the central processing unit, buses, memory units, input/output and communication devices.  The introduction to operating systems emphasizes the file system and program development utilities.  Programing concepts and techniques include problem analysis, program design, coding, and testing, as well as language elements such as data types, variables and assignment statements, expressions, mixed-mode arithmetic, input/output operations, basic data structures and control structures, procedures and abstract data types. Basic database management concepts will also be introduced.  Students will develop small applications programs.  CPSC 110-3 is a first course in computer science and computer programing.  CPSC 110-3 cannot be counted as a computer science course by computer science majors. Credit will not be awarded for both CPSC 110-3 & CPSC 100-4. Refer to major for required course. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture, lab, and tutorial components. !0,3!MATH115
CPSC126!Introduction to Computing!This course is an introduction to computer science. It introduces and exposes the student to the many facets and fields of computer science. Topics discussed include history of computing; algorithms, the hardware and software models of the computer, computer security, problem solving using computers and computer programming; basic and emerging concepts and applications of computer science; the basics of computer networking, and the Internet. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components.!0,3!,OR,MATH115
CPSC141!Discrete Computational Mathematics!This course provides an introduction to set theory, elements of combinatorics and probability theory, logical and formal reasoning using predicate and propositional calculus, together with narrative proof techniques. Other topics include well ordered sets, recursive definitions and mathematical induction; introductory number theory including the division algorithm, Euclidean algorithm, prime numbers and the fundamental theorem of arithmetic; properties of functions and relations including bijections, projections, inverses, composition, and Cartesian products.!3!MATH115
CPSC150!Computer Applications!Taught through the use of common applications, beginning with word processing, this course prepares students for future as well as present needs in computing literacy by reaching beyond examples to recognition of principles. Students gain a practical grasp of data formats, program behaviour, using documentation, and the role of hardware. Communications (including World Wide Web), and cross- platform transference of data, feature prominently, in addition to traditional office applications such as spreadsheets and databases.  Students attend lectures and work from web-mounted lab material. Each student undertakes a personal project, which documents independent learning. May not be counted as a computer science course by computer science majors. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components where applicable. !0,3!
CPSC199!Introductory Special Topics I!The intent of this course is to provide timely offering of courses that either reflect rapid change in Computer Science, provide supplementary material in specific concrete topics or skills, or expose non-majors to advances in Computer Science. Consequently, the topic and availability of this course varies. The course may be retaken any number of times, provided all topics are distinct.!1,3!
CPSC200!Algorithm Analysis and Development!This course introduces the development and analysis of algorithms. Topics include asymptotic complexity and notation, algorithm, analysis, comparison of sorting algorithms, NP Completeness, assertions, and loop and data type invariants. An introduction to program correctness is given and correctness proofs of simple programs are discussed. Recursion relationships are examined. Applications of algorithms are considered.!3!CPSC101,AND,CPSC141
CPSC222!Introduction to Concurrent and Distributed Programming!This course introduces the core concepts, techniques, and tools for concurrent and distributed programming. Topics include concurrent programming in shared memory systems and distributed programming in message passing systems. After introducing the necessary concepts, various coordination problems are discussed and then solved using different synchronization mechanisms. Relevant programming environments are introduced and students gain hands-on experience through programming assignments in both shared memory systems and message passing systems. !3!CPSC101
CPSC230!Introduction to Logic Design!Topics include: Principles of digital circuit design, boolean algebra, basic switching functions and gate-level implementation, canonical forms, algebraic simplifications, Karnaugh maps, Quine-McCluskey tables, voltage assignments, logic technologies, combinatorial logic circuits, decoders, encoders, multiplexers, demultiplexers, comparators, adders, sequential logic circuits, clocked flip-flops, registers, counters, register transfer logic, central processing unit, instruction set, addressing modes, arithmetic and logic units, control unit, bus organization, designing a minicomputer PDP-8. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,4!CPSC100,AND,CPSC141
CPSC231!Computer Organization and Architecture!This course introduces computer organization and architecture.  Topics include computer abstractions and technology, characteristics of good computer architecture, instruction set architecture, Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC), Complex Instruction Set Computer (CISC), processor datapath and control, pipelining, hyper-threading, memory systems, I/O systems, bus, multiprocessors, parallel computers, and Flynn's Taxonomy.  Students gain hands-on experience throuhg a series of assembly level programming lab assignments using a simulator of a simple machine. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components.!0,4!CPSC230
CPSC242!Mathematical Topics for Computer Science!This course introduces topics in graphs and trees: terminology, trails, paths, cycles, and shortest paths. As well, this course discusses counting methods: principles of inclusion and exclusion, combinatorial identities and arguments, and generating functions. Topics in probability theory are introduced. !3!CPSC141,AND,MATH100,OR,MATH105
CPSC250!Applied Business Computing!This course examines core computing knowledge and techniques as they apply to business applications. The course covers database design and information retrieval techniques with emphasis on web-database integration, advanced features of spreadsheets, recoding/analyzing basic business transactions using a variety of accounting software, and implementation of selected financial models. Presentational and interface design techniques are also covered. Students complete a term project that solves a typical business problem using the software and procedures of their choice. This course may not be counted as a computer science course by computer science majors. !3!
CPSC260!Ethics in Computing Science!This course focuses on codes of ethics of computing professional societies, technology and human values, costs and benefits of technology, the social context of work in computer science and engineering, copyright, patents, access, and other concepts. !3!
CPSC270!Human Interface Design!The course examines the theory and practice of human- computer interaction and interface design. Human aspects of the interaction: cognition, perception, attention and memory constraints, knowledge representation, interface metaphors, learning, communication.  Technological aspects of interface design: input-output devices, interaction styles, windowing systems and tools, client-server models, interfaces for collaborative work, virtual environments. A project with a substantial user interface component, involving interface design, validation, implementation, testing, and evaluation will be completed. !3!CPSC200
CPSC281!Data Structures I!Topics include: Program performance, data representation, arrays and matrices, lists, stacks and queues, skip lists and hashing, binary trees, balanced and B-trees, AVL trees, splay trees, tree traversals using stacks, expression trees, prefix, infix, and postfix expressions and conversions, priority queues and heaps, search trees, Huffman codes, graphs, graph algorithms (weighted and unweighted shortest-path, Dijkstra's algorithm, critical paths), minimum-cost spanning trees (Prim's, Kruskal's, and Solin's algorithms). Implementation of various data structures using object-oriented programming language. !3!CPSC200
CPSC299!Introductory Special Topics II!The intent of this course is to provide timely offering of courses that either reflect rapid change in Computer Science, provide supplementary material in specific concrete topics or skills, or expose non-majors to advances in Computer Science. Consequently, the topic and availability of this course varies. The course may be retaken any number of times, provided all topics are distinct. This course normally supposes some first-year exposure to Computer Science.!1,3!
CPSC300!Software Engineering!Fundamental problem-solving concepts, the software development process, software requirements and specifications, software design and implementation, verification and validation, organization and management of programming teams, and documentation are discussed. Students work on a team project.!3!CPSC281
CPSC320!Programming Languages!This course is a general introduction to programming languages. Topics include: an overview of programming languages and language design objectives, specification of syntax and semantics, virtual machines and language translation, lambda calculus and theoretical fundamentals, program correctness and reasoning about programs, programming language constructs, declarations and types, abstraction mechanisms, and programming paradigms. An interpreter-based approach is used to describe the semantics of language constructs. Assignments include case studies and laboratory work. !3!CPSC242,AND,CPSC200
CPSC321!Operating Systems!This course introduces the fundamental concepts of operating systems. Topics include tasking and processes, process co-ordination and synchronization, scheduling and dispatch, physical and virtual memory organization, paging and segmentation, device management, file systems, and security and protection. Students study a simple operating system and have an opportunity to make modifications to it in laboratory exercises. !3!CPSC231,AND,CPSC281,AND,CPSC222,AND,CPSC242
CPSC324!Introduction to Database Systems!This course focuses on the relational database model. Topics include storage structure and access methods, data definition and data manipulation language, relational algebra and calculus, and SQL. An introduction to database design using entity-relationship model, functional dependencies, and theory of normalization is provided. A relational DBMS is used for understanding SQL and application development in SQL-like languages and general purpose host languages with application program interfaces. !3!CPSC281
CPSC340!Theory of Computation!This course examines regular expressions, deterministic and non-deterministic finite automata, context-free and other grammars, pushdown automata, Chomsky and Greibach normal forms. Chomsky hierarchy, pumping lemmas, Turing machines, undecidability, computability, recursive function theory, computational complexity, NP-hard and NP-complete problems.!3!CPSC142,OR,CPSC242
CPSC344!Data Communications and Networking!This course provides an understanding of basic concepts underlying data communications and networking. Topics covered include data transmission and encoding, Internet and Internet2, Network Layer model, multiplexing, circuit switching, network protocols, and data communication hardware. Students also learn about protocols and topologies of Local Area Networks (LANs), Wireless LANs, Wide Area Networks (WANs), Metropolitan Area Networks (MANs), and Backbone Networks (BNs). The basic concepts of network design and implementation, network management, and network security are also introduced. !3!
CPSC346!Cryptography and Data Security!This course is an introduction to the basic algorithms for confidentiality and authenticity of data. Topics include cryptographic primitives and specific realizations, transposition and substitution ciphers, modern private and public key encryption systems, digital signature, realization of AES, DES, RSA, and other systems. !3!CPSC100,AND,CPSC141
CPSC350!Introduction to Computer Graphics!This course provides an overview of Computer Graphics and covers topics such as Basic Raster Graphics Algorithms for Drawing 2D Primitives, Transformations, 3D Viewing, Visible-Surface Detection, Illumination and Rendering, Visualization and Animation. !3!MATH220,AND,CPSC281
CPSC351!Management Information Systems!This course emphasizes the strategic role of information systems in modern business. Topics include the technical foundations of information systems, the impact of information systems on business operations and decision- making, and the processes that are required for successful implementation of business information systems. !3!CPSC100
CPSC370!Functional and Logic Programming!This course provides an introduction to programming in symbolic languages such as the functional language Scheme and the logic programming language PROLOG, with applications to systems programming, symbolic computation, artificial intelligence, and other areas.!3!CPSC141,AND,CPSC281
CPSC371!Artifical Intelligence!Productions and matching, knowledge representations, search, logical reasoning and use of PROLOG in learning, natural-language understanding, computer vision, expert systems. !3!CPSC370
CPSC377!Introduction to Robotics!This course is an introduction to hardware architecture and control architecture of robotic and mechatronic devices. Topics include electronics, sensor capabilities, calibration of sensors, control of sensor I/O, motor and motion control through duty cycle and pulse width modulation. Laboratory topics include the development of interfaces between sensors, their control boards and digital circuitry including microprocessors. Microprocessor control of sensors and motors is developed, including the use of reasoning embedded in onboard microprocessor software for control of robotic actions. Please note: You must register separately in lecture and lab components if applicable. !0,3!PHYS100,OR,PHYS110,AND,CPSC231
CPSC400!Software Engineering Project!The course provides students, working in groups, with a significant project experience in which they can integrate much of the material they have learned in CPSC 300 Software Engineering, including matters relating to requirements, design, human factors, professionalism, and project management. !3!CPSC300
CPSC424!Advanced Database Systems!This course is an introduction to advanced concepts in database design and applications. Topics discussed include transaction management, concurrency control, query processing and optimization, recovery and security, data warehousing and data mining, handling of special data types such as multimedia, spatial data, and XML documents. An introduction to object-oriented and object-relational models, parallel and distributed databases, and special purpose databases is also provided. Support for complex applications, information retrieval and data analysis is examined. !3!CPSC321,AND,CPSC324
CPSC425!Introduction to Compiler Design!This course is an introduction to programming language translation, compilers, interpreters, and other language processors. Topics include the phases of a compiler, lexical analysis and scanner design, syntax analysis and parsing techniques, semantic analysis, code generation, compiler generation tools, compile time and run time aspects of semantics, execution environment and run time support, code optimization, and testing. Students design and implement a compiler for a small language. !3!CPSC281,AND,CPSC340
CPSC430!Undergraduate Thesis!This undergraduate thesis allows students to examine and research a topic in the field of computer science.  Students must have completed at least 90 credit hours and be computer science majors.  This thesis may be taken in one or two semesters.  CPSC 430 is normally taken over two semesters and requires that a student find an Undergraduate Thesis research supervisor.  Therefore, students are encouraged to apply to potential supervisors well in advance of completing 90 credit hours.  This course may be repeated for a total of 6 credit hours.!3,6!
CPSC441!Distributed Systems!This course covers the fundamental principles and paradigms underlying the design of distributed computing systems. Coverage includes the definition and types of distributed systems, communication, processes, naming, synchronization, consistency and replication, fault tolerance, and security. Term projects focus on case studies of specific systems representing web-based, peer-to-peer, mobile, grid, and other modern paradigms.!3!CPSC321
CPSC442!Parallel Computing!This course introduces students to concepts in high performance computing. Topics include classification of parallel architectures, basic communications operations, interconnection networks, topologies of dynamic and static networks, performance issues and techniques for optimization, and dynamic programming. Parallel algorithm design for high-performance computing such as applications in computational biology, finite-element and finite-difference methods for numerical simulations., dense/sparse matrix algorithms, and multidimensional data structures is also discussed. Message passing (MPI and OpenMP) is used for implementation of algorithms on high performance cluster computers.!3!CPSC321
CPSC444!Computer Networks!This course explores essential topics in computer networks including TCP protocol, TCP reliable transport service, Internet protocol IP addresses, IP datagram and datagram forwarding, IPv6, network applications, real time interactive applications protocols (RTP, RTCP, SIP, H.323), security in computer networks, and network management. Network applications discussed include client-server interaction, naming and domain name system DNS, multimedia networking, VoIP, audio and video streaming. !3!CPSC321
CPSC450!Bioinformatics!This course introduces computational techniques for solving biological problems and presents an overview of the tools and the methods used to analyze large biological data sets. After introducing molecular biology for computer scientistscells and organelles, chromosome, gene, DNA, RNA, proteins, transcription and translationthe course explores pairwise and multiple sequence alignment, sequence database searches, pattern identification of genes, promoters and transcription factor binding sites, as well as secondary and tertiary structure prediction for RNA and proteins. Markov models for gene prediction are introduced.!3!CPSC324
CPSC451!Digital Image Processing and Computer Vision!Digital image processing is central to our digital age. This course explores topics in image representation, transforms, enhancement, restoration, segmentation, retrieval, and indexing.!3!CPSC101,AND,CPSC142,OR,CPSC242,AND,MATH220
CPSC472!Knowledge Based Systems!This course introduces students to Expert Systems. The two major topics addressed are Rule-based systems and Fuzzy Logic systems. Goal driven forward-chaining and ackward-chaining paradigms are introduced. Automatic theorem provers, inference engines and problems of knowledge representation and knowledge acquisition are discussed. Approaches to reasoning about uncertainty are covered including Bayesian probabilities, certainty factors, non-monotonic logics and reasoning with beliefs. A Fuzzy Logic system is implemented and an application is developed and tested.!3!CPSC370
CPSC474!Natural Language Processing!The course introduces the formal and practical methods of Natural Language processing. Topics include formal grammars and the Chomsky hierarchy, natural languages, models of syntax, augmented lexicons, parsing methods, semantic structures and knowledge representation for natural language processing, linguistic models, discourse models, problems of reference, machine translation, part of speech tagging, ambiguity and information retrieval.!3!CPSC370
CPSC475!Multiagent Systems!An introduction to the theoretical and practical aspects of intelligent agents and multiagent systems, this course is open to undergraduate students majoring in different areas and fosters creative multidisciplinary interaction. Coverage includes the basic concepts, agent architectures, decuctive and practical reasoning agents, reactive and hyrbrid agents, multiagent interactions, human-agent interactions, agreements, communication, and teamwork. Individual or team projects allow students to explore specific topics in their areas of interest through theorectical or laboratory work. !3!
CPSC482!Data Structures II!External sorting and merging, best case, worst case, and average case estimates, time and space estimates for algorithms studied in CPSC 200-3 and 281-3. !3!CPSC281,AND,CPSC340
CPSC495!Undergraduate Research Project!This course consists of a small research project undertaken by the student or by teams of students. Projects consist of the definition of a problem in computing and a literature survey of recent work in the field. Students are encouraged to define their own possible solutions and to prototype the solutions where appropriate. Regular review of progress is made in meetings. Students develop skills in the preparation of topic survey notes and in the development of arguments in support of or against published approaches to problems in computing. Students are expected to prepare and present their work. This course may be repeated provided all topics are distinct.!0,3!
CPSC499!Special Topics!The topics for this course vary, depending on student interest and faculty availability. This course may be retaken any number of times, provided all topics are distinct.!3!
ECON100!Microeconomics!The interactions of households, firms and government policies. An analysis of how different economic agents interact to determine what is produced, how it is produced and to whom it is distributed. !3!
ECON101!Macroeconomics!The determinants of unemployment, inflation and growth focusing on Canada's macroeconomics performance. !3!
ECON120!Globalization and the World's Economies!This course examines the shifting spatial dynamics of the world economy. Trends in world production, trade, and investment over the past 200 years are analyzed and the reasons for these shifts discussed. Contemporary dimensions of globalization are identifed with a focus on examining the rise and re-emergence of new global powers such as Brazil, Russia, India and China.!3!
ECON202!History of Economic Thought!The development of economic analysis from the 18th to 20th centuries. Selections from the writings of Smith, Ricardo, Mill, Marx and Keynes. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON203!Canadian Economic History!Theories of development, regional differences, First Nations in Canadian economic development. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON205!Statistics for the Social and Management Sciences!An introduction to the principles and applications of statistics relevant to the social and management sciences, with emphasis on making inferences based on observed data. Topics covered include descriptive statistics, probability, random variables, decision theory, estimation, hypothesis testing, statistical software. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!
ECON206!Methods of Economic Evaluation!This course provides an introduction to the analysis and evaluation of socio-economic issues, projects, programs and policies. Contemporary techniques of project and program evaluation are examined. Methods of economic evaluation include cost-benefit, cost-effectiveness and impact analyses. These methods and techniques are applied to issues such as health care, deregulation, wildlife, and resource investment.!3!
ECON210!Introduction to Health Economics and Policy!This course provides a general understanding of health and health care from an economic perspective. It introduces models of health production and discusses the socio- economic determinants of health. Topics considered may include the efficient and equitable allocation of scarce resources in health, alternative methods of health care financing and delivery, the effect of health uncertainty on insurance, and the effects of externalities and information asymmetries in the health sector on the behaviour of health care providers and receivers. Issues of health policy in Canada, including those for remote and rural areas, and other countries are examined. !3!
ECON300!Labour Economics!An examination of the Canadian labour market. The course considers labour demand and supply, wages and terms of employment, wage structures and differentials, education and training, unemployment, unions, and selected labour market policies. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON301!Women and the Economy!This course examines women's economic situations in Canada and other industrialized economies. Labour market topics such as why women earn lower wages than men, occupational segregation, and the international division of labour are considered. Other topics include the unequal distribution of resources within the household, pay equity, and the feminization of poverty; attention is paid to public policies relating to these issues. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101,OR,COMM230
ECON305!Environmental Economics!This course is an introduction to environmental economics emphasizing the relationship between economic activities and environmental quality. It introduces students to frameworks for measuring environmental costs and benefits, and evaluating the efficiency and equity of environmental policies. Local and global environmental issues, including ozone depletion and climate change, are analyzed. !0,3!ECON100
ECON308!International Economic Relations!Trade theory, multilateral institutions (such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund), trading blocs (such as NAFTA), internationalization of finance, world debt, North-South relations. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON310!Intermediate Microeconomic Theory!This course examines the main principles and techniques of economic analysis in their application to modern theories of price, production, distribution and theory of the firm. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101,AND,MATH152,OR,MATH100
ECON311!Intermediate Macroeconomic Theory!Concepts and methods of analysis of macroeconomic variables; consumption, investment, government and foreign trade. Classical and Keynesian models compared; analysis of economic statics and dynamics. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON312!Introduction to Econometrics!In this course, simple linear regression, maximum likelihood estimators, and multiple regression are used in applied economic analysis. Students are introduced to various software programs. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101,AND,ECON205,AND,MATH150,AND,MATH152,OR,MATH100
ECON315!Economics of Social Policy!Examination of public expenditure with specific reference to health, education and social security. Examples will be drawn from various countries. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON317!Money, Banking and Financial Institutions!An examination of the operations of the Canadian financial system and the impact of monetary policy and regulation on the performance of the economy. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON320!Introduction to Mathematical Economics!In this course, the mathematical interpretation of fundamental economic concepts such as demand, supply and competitive equilibrium are examined. Calculus is used in the analysis of production and distribution theory. !3!ECON205,AND,ECON310,AND,MATH150,AND,MATH152,OR,MATH100
ECON321!Economics of Developing Countries!An analysis of the economic problems and policy choices facing developing countries. The course takes a comparative approach analysing why some developing countries have been more successful than others. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON322!Public Finance!Examination of selected policy problems from areas of taxation, income security and public expenditures. Examples in Canadian public pension policy, privatization, tax reform and federal-provincial cost-sharing programs. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON331!Forestry Economics!Economic analysis of private and public forest management. Topics include the measurement of timber and non-timber values, multiple use management, and the regulation of forest practices. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON401!Global Economy!This course analyzes the evolution, and assesses competing theories of, the global economy. The prospects for developing countries within the global economy are examined. !3!ECON101,AND,ECON100,AND,ECON311
ECON404!Poverty, Inequality and Development!This course examines the dimensions and causes of poverty and inequality.  It analyzes development strategies aimed at reducing poverty and inequality. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101,AND,ECON310
ECON407!Economy of Northern BC!The Economy of Northern BC. A comparison of the economic characteristics of Northern BC with other Canadian regions. An examination of regional development and growth concepts and theories. An evaluation of past and present regional economic development programs and initiatives taken by various levels of government. Students cannot get credit for ECON 307-3 and ECON 407-3 or ECON 607-3. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON410!Health Economics!In this course, economic analysis is applied to health care. Topics covered may include models of physician-induced demand, health insurance (private versus national), cost benefit analysis and the evaluation of health technology. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101,OR,ECON210
ECON411!Cost-Benefit Analysis!Techniques and problems in cost-benefit analysis.  Case studies of projects in areas of natural resources, the environment, human resources, public services and transportation. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON423!Economics Field School!This course allows students to learn about the application of economics in specific contexts. Course location varies with instructor and year taken. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the course content differs.!3,6!
ECON425!Trade and the Environment!This course considers the relationship between different international trade regimes and environmental issues. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101
ECON435!Financial Economics and Quantitative Methods!This course explores the theoretical and conceptual foundations of financial economics. The course also includes the study of quantitative methods for testing some of the basic financial propositions in finance. !3!ECON100,AND,ECON101,AND,ECON205
ECON440!Internship!3,6!
ECON451!Advanced Microeconomic Theory!Advanced Microeconomic Theory. Selected topics in microeconomics. !3!ECON310,AND,ECON311,AND,ECON312
ECON452!Advanced Macroeconomic Theory!Selected topics in macroeconomics. !3!ECON310,AND,ECON311,AND,ECON312
ECON453!Advanced Econometrics!Selected topics in econometrics. !3!ECON310,AND,ECON311,AND,ECON312
ECON498!Special Topics in Economics!3,6!
ECON499!Independent Study!3,6!
EDUC101!Introduction to Education!This course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the basic issues facing elementary and secondary teachers in Canadian schools.  The topics to be covered include: social, emotional, cognitive and physical development, classroom management, social and economic issues, gender, multiculturalism, teacher characteristics, special needs, and reflective practice.  It introduces students to the values, concepts, expectations, and responsibilities of classroom teachers.  The course will also acquaint students with the British Columbia Teachers' Federation Guide to Professional Practice. !3!
EDUC176!Mathematics and Aboriginal Culture!This course explores the use of mathematics within cultural contexts. The focus is primarily on Aboriginal perspectives, and the use of math as it pertains to daily life and traditional practices. Attention is given to classroom applications and hands-on learning. !3!
EDUC187!Science and Aboriginal Culture!This course is an exploration of how science is used and understood within cultural practice. The focus is primarily on the scientific method and Aboriginal ways of knowing, combining current scientific theory with cultural knowledge. Attention is given to classroom applications and hands-on learning. !3!
EDUC201!Education Theory and Practice!In this course, students will extend their understanding of contemporary educational issues.  The course introduces theoretical models of curriculum and instruction, as well as provincial curricular guidelines.  Students will reflect on practical aspects of teaching and learning, and they will identify their own beliefs and aims with respect to teaching.  This course builds on and complements the topics addressed in EDUC 101.!3!EDUC101
EDUC313!Interpersonal Communication (Business and Career Education)!An introduction to basic interpersonal communication skills applicable to teaching across the grade levels.  The course focuses on developmentally appropriate and effective communication in one-to-one, small-group, and whole-class contexts when listening, imparting information, giving instructions, and facilitating discussion.  Other topics include: understanding diverse perspectives, establishing equitable discourse opportunities, reflective listening, negotiation, and problem-solving. !1!
EDUC315!Curriculum & Instruc: II(B&CE)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the senior years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !4!EDUC360
EDUC333!Learning, Development, and Motivation!Human social, emotional, cognitive, linguistic, and physical development and learning across the life span. In particular, the emphasis is children's and adolescents' development during the school years and implications for teaching and learning. Topics will include: theories of development; age-related social, behavioral, and academic expectations; developmental diversity; social, cultural, and gender bases of identity; and the teacher's role in creating developmentally appropriate, nurturing environments for learning. Students will complete a term project relevant to their educational stream (Early Years, Middle Years, or Senior Years). !2!
EDUC340!Curriculum Development Models!Practical approaches to the development and evaluation of curricula, placed within a theoretical framework.  Topics will include: epistemological foundations of curriculum, curricular intergration and disciplinary, socio-cultural perspectives and equity, collaborative development, evaluative purposes and approaches, curricular leadership, and the teacher as researcher.  This course perpares students for curriculum and instruction pedagogy courses in specific subject areas. !2!
EDUC341!Principles of Instruction!Theoretical foundations and practical applications of instructional psychology.  The course will address: contemporary theories of learning, models of memory and cognition, learning strategies, teaching effectiveness, instructional planning, classroom processes, teaching to accommodate individual differences, and the cultural psychology of education. !2!
EDUC342!Social Dynamics of Classrooms!This course addresses the social dynamics of classrooms and introduces contemporary approaches to classroom management.  Through a combination of lecture, discussion, small group activities, and case analysis, we will address the following central topics: foundations of classroom management, interpersonal relationships in classrooms, effective instruction to promote learning and motivation, classroom organization and management, and approaches to exceptional cases.  Students will interrogate their own assumptions about the roles of teachers and students, and will develop practical strategies for classroom management and discipline. !2!
EDUC345!Language and Literacy across the Curriculum!In this course, Senior Years students will study the role of language as a medium of teaching and learning, and develop approaches to integrating spoken and written language across subject areas to enhance learning.  The course includes a substantive focus on English as a Second Language/English as a Second Dialect.  Other topics include: the nature of language, classroom discourse, narrative, and journals, construction of meaning, writing and cognition, and diverse oral and literate traditions.  The course includes a focus on strategies for intergrating language within specific subject areas. !4!
EDUC346!Introduction to Aboriginal/Indigenous Education!This course introduces the diverse meanings of the term "Aboriginal/Indigenous education".  The concepts of power, control, and culture help students to analyze contemporary issues surrounding Aboriginal/Indigenous education and Western education.  Topics include historical analysis, current models, defining Aboriginal/Indigenous education, and contemporary issues.  Students build their knowledge and understanding of Aboriginal/Indigenous approaches to education.!2!
EDUC350!Curriculum and Instruction: Second Language (MY)!Curriculum and instruction methods for teaching a second language in the Middle Years.  The language offered may be French, or another provincially approved second language, such as a local First Nations language. !2!
EDUC351!Curriculum and Instruction: Second Language (EY)!Curriculum and instruction methods for teaching a second language in the Early Years.  The language offered may be French, or another provincially approved second language, such as a local First Nations language. !2!
EDUC352!Language and Literacy: Development (MY)!An introduction to the nature of language and literacy, and their development during the middle years of schooling as students make the transition from learning to read and write, to reading and writing to learn.  The course will focus on the components of language, how they are manifested in formal oral and written school work, and diversity across learners and genres.  Class members will learn the curricular expectations for grades 6 to 8 for listening, speaking, reading, writing, spelling, and locating and synthesizing information. !2!
EDUC353!Language & Literacy: Reading & Writing (MY)!Theoretical models of reading, spelling, and writing processes, including cognitive, metacognitive, and metalinguistic aspects.  Students will acquire practical skills and experience in assessing reading, writing, spelling, and language.  They will learn to plan instruction in these areas; to choose curricular and other resources for teaching; and to adapt reading, spelling, writing, and language instruction for diverse learners. !2!EDUC352
EDUC356!Language and Literacy: Development (EY)!An introduction to the nature of language and literacy, and their development prior to and during the early years of schooling.  The course will focus on the components of language and literacy development.  Students will learn the curricular expectations for grades K to 5 for listening, speaking, reading, writing, and spelling, and will be introduced to instructional strategies for oral language and emergent/early literacy. !2!
EDUC357!Language and Literacy: Reading and Writing (EY)!Theoretical models of reading, spelling, and writing processes during the early years.  It will also include practical skills and experience in assessing reading, writing, and spelling, planning instruction in these areas, using curricular and other resources for teaching, and adapting reading, spelling, and writing instruction for diverse learners. !3!EDUC356
EDUC360!Curriculum and Instruction: Introduction (SY)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the Senior Years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !4!EDUC340
EDUC361!Curriculum and Instruction: II (Humanities and Social Sciences)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the Senior Years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !4!EDUC360
EDUC363!Curriculum and Intruction: Social Studies (MY)!The theory of practice of social studies education in the middle years.  Strategies for planning, instruction, and evaluation will be a key focus.  Approaches will include: inquiry methods, critical thinking, interpreting disciplinary knowledge, simulations, group work, and community interaction.  Students will examine the nature and purpose of social studies, and will become familiarized with the BC social studies curriculum for the middle years, as well as with accessing, selecting, developing, and intergrating curricular materials. !2!
EDUC366!Curriculum and Instruction: Social Studies (EY)!The theory and practice of social studies education in the early years, including objectives, teaching and assessment approaches, curricular models, and resources/materials. Students will examine the nature and purpose of social studies, and will become familiarized with the BC social studies curriculum for the early years, as well as with accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials. The course will emphasize strategies for thematic instruction, and integration of social studies themes across the curriculum. !2!
EDUC370!Numeracy across the Curriculum (SY)!An exploration of the role of numeracy in society and across disciplines.  This course includes strategies for fostering quantitative literacy across Senior Years subject areas. !0,3!
EDUC372!Curriculum & Instruction: II (Math, Computers, and Sciences)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the Senior Years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !4!EDUC360
EDUC373!Numeracy: Math Concepts (MY)!This course prepares students to teach middle school mathematics by 1) improving their knowledge of mathematics, including the areas of problem solving, data management, numeration, calculation, fractions, measurement, geometry, ratios, integers, and number theory; 2) familiarizing students with the BC mathematics curriculum for the middle years; and 3) building connections between mathematical knowledge, curricular guidelines, and instructional strategies. !2!
EDUC374!Numeracy: Instructional Strategies (MY)!Topics include accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to middle years mathematics. Instructional strategies will emphasize problem solving, learning with manipulatives, mathematical language, group work, and other process-oriented approaches, as well as choosing and using resources such as math manipulatives and Montessori materials, print materials, computer software, videos, calculators, and graphing calculators. !3!EDUC373
EDUC376!Numeracy: Math Concepts (EY)!This course prepares prospective teachers to teach early years mathematics by 1) improving their knowledge of mathematics, 2) introducing them to the development of numeracy in young children, 3) familiarizing them with the BC mathematics curriculum for the early years; and 4) building connections between mathematical knowledge, development, curricular guidelines, and instructional strategies. !0,2!
EDUC377!Numeracy: Instructional Strategies (EY)!Topics include accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to early years mathematics. Instructional strategies will emphasize problem solving, learning with manipulatives, mathematical language, group work, and other process-oriented approaches, as well as choosing and using resources such as math manipulatives and Montessori materials, print materials, computer software, videos, and calculators.  Students also will explore ways to integrate numeracy across the curriculum, such as through thematic instruction. !2!EDUC376
EDUC380!Foundations of Education!Introduction to the historical, philosophical, psychological, and sociological foundations of education.  Students will reflect on their beliefs about education and teaching, including their assumptions about gender, culture, race, and social class.  This course will include an emphasis on the historical roots of present educational institutions and approaches, and change processes in education as applied to the contemporary Canadian social and educational contexts. !3!
EDUC384!Curriculum and Instruction: Science (MY)!Students will be introduced to the theory and practice of teaching children science, and to the BC curriculum.  The course addresses curriculum and instruction methods for the Middle Years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials and activities; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to middle years science. !2!
EDUC387!Curriculum and Instruction: Science (EY)!Students will be introduced to the theory and practice of teaching children science, and to the BC curriculum.  The course addresses curriculum and instruction methods for the early years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials and activities; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to early years science.  Students also will explore ways to integrate science across the curriculum, such as through thematic instruction. !2!
EDUC390!Classroom Practice and Seminar I!Three-week-equivalent practicum, comprising observations and supervised practical experience in a school, along with weekly seminars with team members addressing ongoing practice issues such as: practical skills, case management, reflection, problem-solving, accessing resources, professional issues, teacher research, and portfolio development. Graded on a Pass/Fail basis. !3!EDUC360,OR,EDUC376,AND,EDUC356
EDUC391!Classroom Practice and Seminar II!Three-week-equivalent supervised practical experience in a school, along with weekly seminars with team members addressing ongoing practice issues such as: practical skills, case management, reflection, problem-solving, accessing resources, professional issues, teacher research, and portfolio development. Graded on a Pass/Fail basis. !3!EDUC345,AND,EDUC315,OR,EDUC361,OR,EDUC372,AND,EDUC370,AND,EDUC390,OR,EDUC390,AND,EDUC350,AND,EDUC353,AND,EDUC363,AND,EDUC374,AND,EDUC384,OR,EDUC390,AND,EDUC351,AND,EDUC357,AND,EDUC366,AND,EDUC377,AND,EDUC387
EDUC392!Classroom Practice and Seminar: First Nations Language and Culture!This three-week equivalent practicum provides teacher candidates enrolled in the Education Diploma in a First Nations Language and Culture program (Elementary Years) with supervised practical experience in a school classroom setting that offers, as part of its mandate, instruction in a First Nations Language and Culture. As part of the practicum experience, weekly seminars address ongoing practical issues confronting teachers of First Nations languages and cultures including pedagogy, classroom management, reflection, learning resources, and professional concerns. This course is graded on a Pass/Fail basis. !3!EDUC390,AND,EDUC380,AND,EDUC333,AND,EDUC341,AND,EDUC342,AND,EDUC351,AND,EDUC356,AND,EDUC446,AND,EDUC+435
EDUC395!Professional Issues: Legal and Ethical!This seminar will build on the professional guidelines introduced throughout the program, and explored in the Classroom Practice seminars.  The course will examine legal and ethical issues pertinent to the professional practice of teachers in the BC public school system, social issues. Students also will be introduced to the expectations and processes for building their professional portfolio over the two years of the program. !1!
EDUC396!Reflective Seminar!In this course, students reflect on their experiences in Aboriginal Language and Culture classrooms and compare those teaching contexts with curriculum and instruction expectations in corss-curricular classrooms.  The course reviews theoretical models of curriculum and instruction and provincial curricular guidelines across the elementary curriculum.   Prerequisite: An Education Diploma in a First Nations Language and Culture, or equivalent.   !2!
EDUC404!Curriculum and Instruction: Fine Arts (MY)!Introduction to the role of music, visual arts, dance, and drama in teaching and learning during the middle years. The course includes a focus on appreciating the arts of our diverse communities, as well as practical approaches to teaching these arts, using tools for art-making, and providing contexts for the performance arts.  Strategies for incorporating music, imagery, and performance across the curriculum will be emphasized, along with approaches to implementing formal instruction in the fine arts. !2!
EDUC406!Curriculum and Instruction: Fine Arts (EY)!Introduction to the role of music, visual arts, dance, and drama in teaching and learning during the early years.  The course includes a focus on appreciating the arts of our diverse communities and understanding children's expressive development, as well as practical approaches to teaching these arts, using tools for art-making, and providing contexts for the performance arts.  Strategies for incorporating music, imagery, and performance across the curriculum will be emphasized. !0,3!
EDUC413!Counselling Skills (EY & MY)!An introduction to the role of the classroom teacher related to collegial work with counsellors, support personnel, school-based teams, and families.  Topics include: working with parents, working with school-based teams, understanding the role of the school counsellor, communicating with teaching assistants, and accessing resources; as well as teaching career and personal planning from K-8. !1!
EDUC414!Curriculum and Instruction:  III (Business and Career Education)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the senior years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning, instructional, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !5!EDUC315
EDUC415!Curriculum and Instruction: IV (Business and Career Education)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the senior years, including accessing, selecting and developing curricular materials; and planning, instructional, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !2!EDUC414
EDUC421!Classroom Assessment Practices!A critical examination of the purposes, utility, and limitations of classroom assessment and evaluation. Students will learn to select appropriate assessment processes and instruments to evaluate the academic, social, and emotional abilities/needs of the children/ adolescents in their classrooms and to plan and evaluate instruction.  They will learn to design and interpret assessment processes and instruments, and to implement a fair grading system.  The course will include a focus on authentic assessment, portfolios, standardized testing, curriculum-based assessment, conferencing, and reporting. !3!
EDUC428!Curriculum and Instruction: Practical Skills (MY)!Introduction to the role of practical skills in the middle years, and to the BC curriculum.  Students will become familiar with the range of practical skills courses available to middle years students, and will complete a C&I project in a selected practical skill curricular area. !1!
EDUC431!Educational Technology!This course is intended to provide students with the understanding and skills needed to effectively integrate computer based technology in an educational setting.  The topics to be covered focus on the use of technology in a school setting and include operations and concepts, professional practice, and technology issues (OS and DOS Platforms).  It introduces students to the values, concepts, expectations, and responsibilities of classroon teachers with respect to technology and issues arising from its use. !0,3!
EDUC434!Counselling Skills (SY)!An introduction to the role of the classroom teacher related to CAPP, collegial work with counsellors, support personnel, school-based teams, and families.  Topics include: working with parents, working with the school-based team, understanding the role of the school counsellor, communicating with teaching assistants, and accessing resources; as well as teaching career and personal planning from grades 9-12.  The course will also introduce teaching approaches and suppport sytems that help students develop and maintain positive achievement-oriented beliefs, that foster their motivation for school learning, and that help them stay in school and experience success in school contexts. !3!
EDUC435!Learning and Diversity: Inclusive Classrooms!This course addresses individual differences and inclusion based on the premise that all students have individual differences in their experiences, skills, knowledge, perspectives, and cultural beliefs; and that curricular materials and instruction must be selected, designed, and adapted to include all learners.  Within this wider philosophical framework, particular focuses of the course will include: history of special education and contemporary approaches; working with students with physical, intellectual, or emotional/behavioral challenges or talents; individualized education plans; assessment; the team approach; and accommodating social, cultural, and linguistic diversity. !2!
EDUC436!Learning and Diversity: Learning Disabilities!This course explores the theoretical bases of learning disabilities; and strategies for assessment, instruction, and coordination of resources to support learners with LD across the developmental levels.  Characteristics and educational implications of Fetal Alcohol Syndrome/Effects also will be introduced, and practical instructional approaches explored. !2!
EDUC446!Aboriginal/Indigenous Education: Epistemology!This course is an introduction to Aboriginal/Indigenous epistemology. Central to this study are the thinking and listening processes of orality.  Oral history stories provide a unique way to know and to understand the world.  Topics include Aboriginal/Indigenous epistemology, Aboriginal/Indigenous education meta-theory, orality, Aboriginal/Indigenous spirituality and education, and Aboriginal/Indigenous curricula, and phenomenology.!2!
EDUC452!Language and Literacy: Across the Curriculum (MY)!In this course, students will study the role of language as a medium for teaching and learning in the middle years, and develop approaches to integrating spoken and written language across subject areas such as language arts, math, science, and social studies.  The course includes a substantive focus on English as a Second Language/English as a Second Dialect.  Other topics include: classroom discourse, construction of meaning, narratives and journals, writing and cognition, genre-specific writing, and diverse oral traditions.  The course includes a practical focus on learning to use effective instructional language, designing thematic instruction, creating literacy-rich classroom environments, providing diverse routes to learning, and managing student discussion in whole-class and small-group contexts. !2!EDUC353
EDUC453!Language and Literacy: Oral and Written Genres (MY)!An introduction to the various fiction and nonfiction written genres of literature appropriate to the middle years, as well as oral forms such as storytelling, debate, dramatic reading, and public speaking.  Practical emphases of this course include learning to select and use diverse texts, as well as curricular resources and materials, to design instruction that fits with curricular aims and individual learner's needs.  Students will become familiar with the role and resources of the school library and teacher-librarian, as well as electronic media sources. !2!EDUC452
EDUC456!Language and Literacy: Across the Curriculum (EY)!In this course, students will study the role of language as a medium of teaching and learning in the early years, and develop approaches to integrating spoken and written language across subject areas such as language arts, math, music, science, and social studies.  The course includes a substantive focus on English as a Second Language/English as a Second Dialect.  Other topics include: classroom discourse, construction of meaning, narratives and journals, writing and cognition, and diverse oral traditions.  The course includes a practical focus on learning to use effective instructional language, designing thematic instruction, creating literacy-rich classroom environments, providing diverse routes to learning, and managing student discussion in whole-class and small-group contexts. !2!EDUC357
EDUC457!Language & Literacy: Oral & Written Genres (EY)!An introduction to children's literature in the early years, including the various fiction and nonfiction written genres, and oral storytelling.  Practical emphases of this course include learning to select and use children's literature, as well as language arts resources and materials, to plan instruction that fits with curricular aims and individual learner's needs.  Students will become familiar with the role and resources of the school library and teacher-librarian. !2!EDUC456
EDUC460!Curriculum and Instruction: III (Humanities Social Sciences)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the senior years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !5!EDUC361
EDUC461!Curriculum and Instruction: IV (Humanities and Social Sciences)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the senior years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !2!EDUC460
EDUC471!Curriculum and Instruction: III (Math, Computers, and Sciences)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the senior years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !5!EDUC372
EDUC472!Curriculum and Instruction: IV (Math, Computers, and Sciences)!Curriculum and instruction methods for the senior years, including accessing, selecting, and developing curricular materials; and planning, instruction, and evaluation methods pertaining to the teachable subject areas. !2!EDUC471
EDUC488!Curriculum and Instruction: IV  Physical Education (MY)!Foundational and instructional basis for planning and implementing physical education programs in the middle years. !2!
EDUC489!Curriculum and Instruction: IV  Physical Education (EY)!Foundational and instructional basis for planning and implementing physical education programs in the middle years. !2!
EDUC490!Classroom Practice and Seminar III!Four weeks supervised practicum in a school, along with weekly seminars with team members addressing ongoing practice issues such as: practical skills, case management, reflection, problem-solving, accessing resources, professional issues, teacher research, and portfolio development.  Graded on a Pass/Fail basis. !4!EDUC391,AND,EDUC414,OR,EDUC460,OR,EDUC471,OR,EDUC452,AND,EDUC404,OR,EDUC456,OR,EDUC406
EDUC491!Classroom Practice and Seminar IV!Full-time, ten-week supervised practicum in a school, along with weekly seminars with team members addressing ongoing practice issues such as: practical skills, case management, reflection, problem-solving, accessing resources, professional issues, teacher research, and portfolio development. Graded on a Pass/Fail basis. !1!EDUC490,AND,EDUC415,OR,EDUC461,OR,EDUC472,OR,EDUC453,AND,EDUC488,OR,EDUC457,OR,EDUC489
EDUC495!Professional Issues:  Portfolios!This seminar will focus on presentations and evaluation of teacher candidates' professional portfolios developed over their past two years of study and practical experience. Other topics will include the transition to work, and developing a personal plan for ongoing professional development. !1!EDUC395
EDUC500!Teacher Leadership!This course is based on the premise that all teachers can engage in teacher leadership through formal or informal roles to influence social conditions and instructional effectiveness within and beyond their classrooms. Students prepare for leadership opportunities by exploring strategies for goal setting, enhancing communication and trust, motivating and energizing colleagues, and implementing change for improved teacher and student achievement. There is an emphasis on how to build communities of practice or professional learning communities in school contexts. !3!
EDUC501!Action Research in Schools and Classrooms!This course introduces action research as a strategy for learning about teaching and learning processes and improving classroom practice, often in collaboration with other educators. Course topics include the value of action research, action research processes, examples of action research projects from a variety of schools and classrooms, and keys to planning and reporting successful action research projects. An outcome of the course is that teachers will acquire the skills and tools of action research to implement and adapt innovations in specific educational contexts. !3!
EDUC502!Interpretation and Application of Educational Research!This course exposes teachers to both quantitative and qualitative educational research. Students are expected to read and interpret research in the literature. Successful students may plan to apply existing research knowledge in classrooms and schools or to develop new knowledge related to implementation of innovations in their own settings. !3!
EDUC504!Instructional Leadership for Cooperating Teachers!This course is open to classroom teachers who have sponsored  an extended practicum for a UNBC B.Ed. student. The course consists of an orientation workshop, the practicum itself, and a final weekend seminar to reflect on the mentorship experiences in light of the instructional leadership literature. !3!
EDUC521!Classroom Assessment Practices!This course examines the relationships between the purposes and practices of classroom-based assessment and evaluation. Teachers will consider the roles of formative and summative assessment, including dynamic assessment, curriculum-based assessment, portfolios, conferencing, and standardized testing; and the implications of such practices for grading,  instructional approaches, school achievement, and planning for diverse students. Emphasis on the practical component allows exploration of effective assessment practices and interpretation of assessment results, as well as responses to current trends in educational evaluation. !3!
EDUC523!Teaching for Social Responsibility!This course explores the implications of improved social responsibility as a school or district improvement goal, and  assists teachers in developing classroom and school wide strategies to achieve that goal. Course topics include personal planning curricula, social dynamics, and strategies  for improving communication, relationships, and community  identity in classrooms and schools. !3!
EDUC528!Numeracy Strategies for Struggling Learners!This course is an overview of diagnostic and remedial strategies for mathematics. Students will be provided with an overview of individualised assessment, including formal standardised instruments, informal tests, and classroom- based tools and instruction on remedial strategies specific to math errors and deficiencies. There will also be a field application in the form of a brief math clinic in which the students will work in a semi-supervised setting with one remedial math child out of which a final report will be produced. !3!
EDUC531!Applications of Educational Technology!This course introduces students to the various computer programs available to practising teachers with a particular  emphasis on construction of web-based resources. As well, it examines the role of computer technology as a teaching and learning resource in contemporary educational environments. !3!
EDUC533!Human Development: Implications for Education!3!
EDUC534!Achievement Motivation!This course addresses current literature on achievement motivation, grounded in practical classroom and school-based  examples. The examination is practice oriented and teachers  focus on shaping inferences from the literature for local application. A central issue is how teachers can understand  and foster students' motivation for school learning. !3!
EDUC535!Learning & Diversity: Inclusive Classrooms!This course addresses individual differences and inclusion based on the premises that all students have individual differences in their experiences, skills, knowledge, perspectives, and cultural beliefs: and that the curricular  materials and instruction must be selected, designed, and adapted to include all learners. Within this wider philosophical framework, particular focus of the course will  include: history of special education and contemporary approaches; working with students with physical, intellectual, emotional/behavioural challenges or talents; individualized education plans; assessment; the team approach; and accommodating social, cultural, and linguistic diversity. !3!
EDUC541!Principles of Instruction!This course provides an examination of current instructional  trends and strategies and the opportunities and challenges in their implementation. Teachers will be encouraged to identify, reflect on, and expand their curriculum planning tools and instructional repertoires. !3!
EDUC546!First Nations Education!This course reviews the diverse meanings of First Nations or Aboriginal education.  The concepts of power, control, and culture will help teachers analyze current practice.  Topics include: historical analysis, contemporary issues, and promising practices for increasing Aboriginal school success.  Teachers will build their knowledge and understanding of Aboriginal approaches to education.!3!
EDUC551!Mathematics Education!This course provides a critical examination of current practices and emerging trends in K-12 mathematics curriculum planning and instruction. Teachers may elect to focus on either the elementary or secondary level of the curriculum. !3!
EDUC552!Science Education!This course provides a critical examination of current practices and emerging trends in K-12 science curriculum planning and instruction. Teachers may elect to focus on either the elementary or secondary level of the curriculum. !3!
EDUC553!Social Studies Education!This course provides a critical examination of current practices and emerging trends in K-12 social studies curriculum planning and instruction. Teachers may elect to focus on either the elementary or secondary level of the curriculum. !3!
EDUC554!Literacy Strategies for Struggling Learners!This course introduces participants to the diagnostic assessment of reading problems and the planning, development  and use of instructional strategies that address struggling  readers' identified needs. The course will involve a practicum component that includes the diagnostic assessment  of struggling readers and the subsequent planning, instruction, and reporting of the assessment and intervention. The course is intended for teachers wishing to  further develop their diagnostic literary assessments, planning, and instructional repertoires in classroom settings. !3!
EDUC558!Language Arts Education!This course provides a critical examination of current practices and emerging trends in K-12 language arts curriculum planning and instruction, including aspects of language, literacy, and literature. Topics will include the writing process, reader response, and children's or young  adult literature as welll as current approaches to teaching  reading. Teachers may elect to focus on either the elementary or secondary level of the curriculum. !3!
EDUC559!Second Language Instruction!This course provides a critical examination of current practices and emerging trends in K-12 second language curriculum planning and instruction. The language offered may be French or another provinicially approved second language, such as a First Nations language. Teachers may elect to focus on either the elementary or secondary level of the curriculum. !3!
EDUC570!Montessori Theory!This course is designed to provide a comprehensive overview of the Montessori preschool years (ages 3-6).  It includes lectures and seminars on Montessori educational theory, philosophy, and preschool curriculum. The course is required of students who are not Montessori 3-6 certified. !3!
EDUC571!Montessori Curriculum and Instruction: Language!This course prepares the student to implement an integrated approach to language literacy and cultural studies consistent with Montessori pedagogy.  Demonstration, lecture presentations, small group discussion, and supervised practice with materials are utilized. !3!
EDUC572!Montessori In Context (Child Development)!Students examine Maria Montessori's philosophical beliefs. The integration of philosophy, current research in the area of child development, and content pedagogy is the focus of this component of the program.  Lecture presentations, small group discussion, and independent and small group research projects are utilized. !3!
EDUC573!Montessori Curriculum and Instruction - Scientific Literacy!This course focuses on the development and refinement of knowledge and skills necessary for full implementation of the Montessori approach to Cosmic Education and the elementary cultural studies curriculum.  The course provides a constructivist approach to the integration of Cosmic Education, Science and Practical Life/Technology.  Through hands on experience, research, small group projects, lecture, and demonstration students develop and refine competency in scientific literacy. !3!
EDUC574!Montessori Curriculum and Instruction - Mathematics Education!This course is designed to prepare the student to present the Montessori mathematics curriculum and facilitate the development of mathematics in a Montessori Elementary class (ages 6-12).  Demonstration, lecture presentations, and supervised practice with didactic materials provide links between Montessori pedagogy and mathematical concepts. !3!
EDUC575!Montessori Integrated Cultural Studies and Field Study Planning!In this course, students research, design, and demonstrate appropriate materials and activities that reflect an integration of history, geography, the sciences, and creative arts. Topics include the scope and importance of movement, nutrition and physical exercise for the development of the whole child and an understanding of an integrated and interdisciplinary approach to education and an ability to apply Montessori principles in preparation for a field study and portfolio. Lecture, demonstration, field trips, discussion, participation in physical activities, and individual research projects are utilized. !3!
EDUC576!Montessori Integrated Cultural Studies Field Study!The function of the Field Study/Practicum Phase is to provide for the student a supervised teaching/learning experience and a period of observation, internalization, and further study, to bring together the theory and practice of Montessori Education. !3!
EDUC577!Montessori Portfolio!This course is the culmination of the Montessori Education Program and results in the production of a print-based or electronic portfolio. Students provide artifacts from their coursework and professional experience that demonstrate a definite understanding of the Montessori theory and practice. The media include video, audio, student assessment, and any related evidence. !3!
EDUC580!Visual Arts Across the Curriculum!This course provides an exploration of the role of the visual arts (drawing, painting, sculpture, mixed media) for teaching and learning in the K-12 curriculum. Strategies for incorporating the visual arts as means of expressing learning in subject areas across the curriculum will be emphasized. Teachers may elect to focus on either the elementary or secondary level of the curriculum. !3!
EDUC581!Performing Arts Across the Curriculum!This course provides an exploration of the role of the performing arts (music, dance, and drama) for teaching and learning in the K-12 curriculum. Strategies for incorporating the peforming arts as means of expressing learning in subject areas across the curriculum will be emphasized. Teachers may elect to focus on either the elementary or secondary level of the curriculum. !3!
EDUC592!Special Topics!Topics to be determined by the special interests of students  and the availability of faculty members to teach those topics. Special topics courses at this level will emphasize the analysis and improvement of classroom practice in light of current literature. There is no limit to the number of special topics courses that can be taken as credit toward a Post-Baccalaureate Diploma. !3!
EDUC593!Directed Readings!This course provides an opportunity for students to study an  educational topic relevant to their program. Directed readings courses at this level will emphasize the analysis and improvement of classroom practice in light of current literature. The delivery of directed readings courses is subject to the availability of instructors. !3!
EDUC594!Self-Directed Professional Development!This course provides practicing teachers with current views of effective professional development in light of movements toward standards and accountability. Students will engage in  a comprehensive analysis of their practice to date and build a professional portfolio to reflect their achievements . An outcome of the course will be the construction of a portfolio and professional growth plan that builds on past successes and strengths and addresses areas identified as underdeveloped. !3!
ENGL100!Introduction to Literary Structures!This course provides an introduction to the reading of the three major genres: poetry, fiction, and drama. The course introduces the students to the basic structural principles and rhetorical strategies of literary texts by observing structural and rhetorical theory applied to specific poems, fictions, and plays.!3!
ENGL102!Introduction to Poetry!This course provides an introduction through a detailed examination of a range of poetic texts. Students are taught how to construct an argument, and how to assemble and present an academic essay.  There is regular practice in writing well.  The course includes library research and an oral presentation, and may also include computer skills.!0,3!
ENGL103!Introduction to Fiction!This course provides an introduction to the reading of fiction through a detailed examination of a range of narrative texts (e.g., the novel, short fiction).!3!
ENGL104!Introduction to Film!This course provides an introduction to the study of film through a detailed examination of a range of films.!3!
ENGL120!Introduction to Canadian Native Literatures!This course offers an introduction to the study of Canada's Native literatures, including traditional oral narratives, drama, poetry, and fiction. !3!
ENGL170!Writing and Communication Skills!Students will be taught how to construct an argument, and how to assemble and present an academic essay. There will be regular practice in writing well. The course includes library research and an oral presentation, and may also include computer skills. !3!
ENGL200!Gender and Literary Theory!This course provides an introduction to critical analyses of gender and their implications for literature. Students will gain an overview of some current topics in gender theory and apply these to contemporary texts. !3!
ENGL201!Computing in the Humanities!This course provides an introduction to the growing use of computer technology in the humanities, including word processing/desktop publishing, research using databases, electronic concordances and bibliographies, and electronic publishing on the World Wide Web. Instead of a research paper, students create a personal home page which reflects the material learned in the class. Classes incorporate work on the computing platforms available to students at UNBC.!3!
ENGL204!Introduction to Television and Film Production!This course offers an introduction to the theory and practice of television and film production. !3!ENGL104
ENGL205!Fiction!This course examines selected trends in the development of the novel or short story, or of a particular mode or genre of representation. See the English Department handbook for details. (Students may have already received credit for ENGL 203-3 or ENGL 204-3, but not both).!0,3!
ENGL209!Introduction to Television Studies!This course introduces students to the academic study of television.  Individual instructors may choose to focus on fiction or non-fiction or include both. !3!
ENGL210!Women and Literature: A Survey!A survey of works of poetry and fiction written by women in English from the Renaissance to the present. The course will consider feminist theory and criticism in relation to these works. !3!
ENGL211!Survey of English Literature I!This course provides a survey of literature in English from the medieval period (c. 10th century) to the late 18th century.!3!ENGL100,OR,ENGL102,OR,ENGL103,OR,ENGL104
ENGL212!Survey of English Literature II!This course provides a survey of literature in English from the late 18th century to the present.!3!ENGL211
ENGL231!An Introduction to Canadian Literature!This course provides a survey of Canadian literature.!3!
ENGL260!A Survey of Children's Literature!This course provides an historical survey tracing literature written for children in texts as varied as The Arabian Nights, and Salman Rushdies Haroun and The Sea of Stories. !3!
ENGL270!Expository Writing!This course offers lectures and workshops in the study and craft of non-fictional prose.!3!
ENGL271!Introduction to Creative Writing!This course offers introductory lectures and workshops in the craft of writing fiction, poetry, and/or drama.!3!
ENGL280!Shakespeare!This course examines selected Shakespearean plays. Some of Shakespeares non-dramatic poetry may be included. One play by a contemporary of Shakespeare (e.g., Webster, Jonson) may also be considered.!3!
ENGL281!Introduction to Renaissance Literature!This course descriptions an introduction to the literature of the English Renaissance in the major genres (poetry, prose and drama).!3!
ENGL282!Introduction to  Restoration an 18th Century Literature!This course examines selected works of poetry, prose and drama of the Restoration and 18th century, including authors such as Congreve, Dryden, Pope, Swift, Johnson, Behn and early Jane Austen.!3!
ENGL283!Introduction to Romantic Literature!This course examines the English Romantic poets: Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Shelley and Keats. Attention will be paid to women Romantic writers such as Mary Shelley, and the later work of Jane Austen.!3!
ENGL284!Introduction to Victorian Literature!This course examines selected texts of poetry, fiction and non-fiction by authors such as Thackerary, George Eliot, Dickens, Charlotte Bronte, Robert Browning, Tennyson and Christina Rossetti.!3!
ENGL285!Modern British Literature!This course examines Modernism in Britain, focusing on the period around the First World War (1900-1930) and concentrating on the following prose writers: Joyce, Lawrence, Woolf, and Forster.!3!
ENGL300!Theory!This course examines the development of critical theory from Aristotle to the present. Students are introduced to influential literature theories in an historical context, from the classical to the modern.!3!
ENGL304!Digital Art!This course provides instruction in the theory and practice of digital art. !3!ENGL204
ENGL309!Intermediate Studies in Film or Television!This course undertakes an extensive examination of a range of film or television genres.  Individual instructors may choose to focus on film or television or include both. !3!
ENGL320!First Nations Literature!This course focuses on the contemporary writing of the First Nations people in English in Canada and the United States. It examines the implications of colonialism and the strategies that writers use to decolonize, redefine and affirm their identity, history and culture.!3!
ENGL331!Genres in Canadian Literature!This course focuses on a single genre in Canadian literature such as the short story, the novel, drama, poetry, or non-fiction prose. See the English Department handbook for details.!3!
ENGL340!Postcolonial Literature!This course examines literature in English written in one or more of the following regions: Africa, the Caribbean, India, Australia, New Zealand. The course offers an introduction to postcolonial literatures, their definitions of culture, and their relation to the British Empire.!3!
ENGL350!Comparative Literature!This course provides an examination of works in world literature, written in English and other languages, in the context of various literary periods and genres. Romanticism, French naturalism, postcolonial literatures.!3!
ENGL381!Renaissance Literature!This is an advanced version of the 200-level course, with a particular emphasis on the interaction between the visual and written art forms.!3!
ENGL382!Restoration and 18th Century Literature!This course provides an intensive study of two or three authors or of a major genre, form or theme of the period.!3!
ENGL383!Romantic Literature!This course provides an intensive study of two or three authors or of a major genre, form or theme of the period.!3!
ENGL384!Victorian Literature!This course provides an intensive study of two or three authors or of a major genre, form or theme of the period.!3!
ENGL386!19th Century Literature in the United States!This course provides a study of American writing in its historical contexts. The course may include Colonial literature, Contact literature, literature of the American Renaissance, African-American slave narratives, and transcriptions of Native oral literature.!3!
ENGL390!Language!This course examines the structure and development of the English language from its beginnings to the present, with close reference to literary texts.!3!
ENGL400!Contemporary Theory!This course provides an advanced study of current theoretical modes, including feminism and gender theory, deconstruction, postcolonial theory, discourse analysis, new historicism and Marxist theory, psychoanalytic theory, and cultural studies. The course includes an investigation of the critical positions of contemporary theorists.!3!
ENGL404!Advanced Television and Film Production!This course offers advanced instruction in the theory and practice of television and film production. !3!ENGL104,AND,ENGL204
ENGL409!Special Topics in Film or Television Studies!This course offers an intensive examination of an area or genre of film or television.  Individual instructors may choose to focus on film or television or include both. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL410!Contemporary Women's Literature!This course considers contemporary woemn writers and their work, emphasizing their cultural diversity and considering them in the context of feminist theory. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL420!Special Topics in First Nations Literature!This course looks at contemporary First Nations writers and their work. Writers may include Thomas King, Gerald Vizenor Leslie Silko, Louise Erdrich and others. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the material is substantially different.!3,6!
ENGL430!Special Topics in Canadian Literature!This is an advanced course in contemporary, multicultural Canadian literature. Authors may include Rohinton Mistry, Rudy Wiebe, Aritha van Herk, or Joy Kogawa, Marlene Nourbese Philip. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL431!Northern BC Literature!This advanced course in Northern BC Literature focuses on authors such as Barry McKinnon, Eden Robinson, Brian Fawcett, George Stanley, Jacqueline Baldwin, and Ken Belford. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL440!Special Topics in Postcolonial Literature!This is an advanced version course in the main issues of postcolonial literature, such as postcolonial nationalism and English versus native languages. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL444!Internship!This course may be repeated for credit to a maximum of six credit hours.!2,6!
ENGL450!Special Topics in Comparative Literature!This is an advanced version of the 300-level course, focusing on a specific genre, theme or period. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL460!Special Topics in Children's Literature!This is a special topics course in children's literature and culture. See the English Department handbook for details. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL470!Creative Writing - Poetry!This course included lectures and workshops in the craft of writing poetry. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL471!Creative Writing - Fiction and Creative Non-Fiction!This course includes lectures and workshops in the craft of writing fiction and/or creative non-fiction. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL472!Creative Writing: Drama or Scriptwriting!Lectures and workshops in the craft of writing drama or scriptwriting.  This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3!
ENGL480!Science Fiction!This course studies the structures and motifs of science fiction and fantasy. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL483!Special Topics in Romantic Literature!This course investigates a particular aspect of Romantic Literature. The focus may be on the works of a specific author or school of authors, a literary genre, or a particular social or theoretical concern.  This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL484!Special Topics in Victorian Studies!This course investigates a particular aspect of Victorian Literature. See the English Department handbook for details. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL485!Special Topics in Modern and Contemporary Literature in the US!This course provides a study of American writing since 1900, with an emphasis on American cultural contexts. The course may focus on a specific author or authors, on a particular genre, theme or region, or on ethnic and minority literature. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with the permission of the instructor and the Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3!
ENGL486!Literature of the Fantastic!This course examines various periods and aspects of fantastic literature. When appropriate, the course includes film and graphic arts as well as literary texts.  This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL491!Special Topics in Renaissance Literature!This course examines various aspects of Renaissance literature and art.  The focus could be on the works of a specific author, a genre, or theoretical consideration.  This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL493!Cultural Studies!This is a special topics course in cultural studies with a focus on an interdisciplinary approaches. See the English Department handbook for details. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the instructor and Department Chair if the subject matter of the course differs substantially.!3,6!
ENGL498!Special Topics in Literature!Consult the Department Chair for details.!3,6!
ENGL499!Independent Study in Literature!Consult the Program Chair for details. !3!
ENPL104!Introduction to Planning!This course introduces students to the practice of planning and an overview of the history, techniques and applications in planning. The course emphasizes the role of the public, politicians, and planners in the field of planning. !3!
ENPL204!Principles and Practices of Planning!This course provides an introduction to, and understanding of, land use planning systems. Land use planning practice is heavily influenced by the legal and institutional structures in place, the values of the society it serves, and the local dynamics that exist. To gain an increased understanding of the importance of the context of planning, this course examines the structure of various land use planning systems, with a detailed focus on the structure and operation of the Canadian system. The course draws heavily upon examples of planning at the provincial and local levels in British Columbia.!3!ENPL104,OR,ENVS104
ENPL205!Environment and Society!Interactions between humans and their environments, societal responses to environmental change both naturally and anthropogenically induced. !3!
ENPL206!Planning Analysis and Techniques!This course provides background knowledge and skills needed for future studies. This course covers qualitative and quantitative techniques used in the field of planning. Specific aeas covered include: scenario and future studies; forecast; backcasting and other prediction techniques; and policy analysis. !0,3!ECON205,OR,MATH242,OR,MATH240,OR,STAT240
ENPL207!Introduction to Computer Aided DEsign (CAD) for Planners!This course teaches students the basic functions and applications of CAD to the field of community and environmental design. Students apply design theory within the CAD environment producing 2D and 3D models of proposed infrastructure plans. !3!,OR,MATH115
ENPL208!First Nations Community and Environmental Planning!First Nations are involved in a broad array of environmental and community planning processes. Some of these processes originate in First Nations communities. Others are established as federal and provincial government or business initiatives. This course lays a foundation for student understanding of these planning processes and their future development.!3!
ENPL301!Sustainable Communities: Structure and Sociology!This course focuses on the social dimension of planning, including the organization, function, development, and decline of human settlements.  Students learn about the sociology of community and the relations between social interaction and physical structures.  Topics include social impact assessments, indicators of sustainable communities, and current planning programs (eg., healthy communities, new urbanism, and Smart Growth). !3!
ENPL303!Spatial Planning with Geographical Information Systems (GIS)!Methods from geographical information science can be used in various ways in spatial planning. The course provides knowledge about the methods from GIS and decision support systems that are most important to planners. The laboratories demonstrate how decision support systems are used within various fields of spatial planning. Emphasis is placed upon urban and rural planning issues and location analysis techniques. !0,3!GEOG204,OR,GEOG300
ENPL304!Mediation, Negotiation & Public Participation!This course is an introduction to the art and practice of mediation, negotiation and public participation processes. The course focuses on basic principles and best practices, and allows students the opportunity to develop their own skills in the subject areas through simulations and observations. !3!
ENPL305!Environmental Impact Assessment!Analysis of environmental impact statements and their legal framework; methods of environmental assessment. !3!
ENPL313!Rural Community Economic Development (CED)!This course offers an introduction to the various theories and concepts of community economic development with specific application to northern, rural, remote and First Nations communities. !3!
ENPL318!Professional Planning Practice!To provide an overview of the professional skills required in the practice of planning. The course examines the ethical role of the planner and provides an in-depth assesment of municipal and sectoral planning environment. !3!ENPL204
ENPL319!Social Research Methods!This course provides an overview of social research methods used in environmental planning, social sciences, and humanities. Topics covered include research design, data collection techniques (e.g. surveys, interviews), quantitative and qualitative data analysis, and project management. !3!
ENPL401!Environmental Law!This course covers the interpretation and application of international, national, provincial, and aboriginal environmental law. (This course is recommended for students who intend to pursue the study of law.) !3!
ENPL402!Terrain Assessment!An evaluation of different techniques used to classify terrain, including an understanding of the dynamics of land surface processes, the impacts of development, applied remediation methods, and the use of terrain information for site and land use planning. !0,3!GEOG210
ENPL409!Advanced First Nations Community and Environmental Planning!This is a workshop style, field-based course that allows students to work on a real world planning project in collaboration with a First Nations community. Students will be expected to be able to work in the field. !4!ENPL208
ENPL410!Land Use Planning!An evaluation of land use planning at the federal, provincial, and municipal levels. The course will familiarize students with theories of property rights and their applications to land use planning and tenure systems. !3!ENPL204,OR,ENVS204
ENPL411!Planning Theory, Process and Implementation!Theories of planning and how theory informs planning practice. How planners manage planning processes, how plans are implemented. Use of communicative skills important in expediting implementation within the political environment of planning practice. !3!ENPL204,OR,ENVS204
ENPL415!Ecological Design!An overview of the unique planning and development dimensions of small communities and rural regions. Current planning practice and new ecological planning principles will be examined. Design and planning technologies will be utilized in the development of a landscape plan for a small community/rural region. !3!ENPL204
ENPL420!Research Methodology!An opportunity to examine major methodologies and to prepare a research proposal. !1!ENPL430
ENPL430!Undergraduate Thesis!This is an optional course, allowing students to devote time to a concentrated piece of research. !3!ENPL420
ENPL431!Professional Report!This course allows the development of a professional report relevant to the student's theme of interest. !3!
ENPL440!Internship!This course allows students to gain applied knowledge in the field of planning outside the university setting. A student can take one or several internship(s) for a maximum of 6 credit hours toward the Bachelor of Planning degree. !2,6!
ENPL498!Special Topics!Selected environmental topics. May be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !1,6!
ENPL499!Independent Study!May be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !1,6!
ENSC100!Introduction to Engineering Science!This course will introduce Engineering students to Engineering practice, particularly in Northern BC, through seminars and invited presentations involving Professional Engineers in the region and province. !0,1!
ENSC111!Introduction to Environmental Science!This course introduces students to the discipline of environmental science. Students are exposed to a variety of environmental science topics through seminars, lectures, assignments and invited presentations. Some field trips may be required.!1!
ENSC150!Fundamentals of Environmental Engineering!Environmental Engineering is introduced through the application of engineering problem-solving methods and design concepts to contemporary environmental concerns. Topics include physical, chemical, and biological fundamentals; water, soil and air pollution; water and waste water treatment; solid and hazardous waste management; and air pollution control.  A tour of a wastewater treatment plant or another similar facility provides context for the lecture material. !3!MATH100,AND,MATH101,OR,MATH152,AND,CHEM101
ENSC151!Engineering Tools!This course provides an introduction to engineering problem solving using common software tools, including spreadsheets, CAD, and GIS software. Case studies provide relevance and serve to bind together many of the topics covered in the course. !1!
ENSC201!Weather and Climate!This course explains the fundamental processes of weather and climate, and leads the student toward an understanding of how the atmosphere works and how to interpret the weather. Topics introduced include: atmospheric energy, solar and terrestrial radiation, the "Greenhouse Effect", and climate change, air quality and stratospheric ozone, humidity, clouds, precipitation, storms and weather systems, hurricanes and tornadoes, stability and thunderstorms, wind and atmospheric dynamics, and weather forecasting. !0,3!
ENSC202!Introduction to Aquatic Systems!Aquatic systems are central to all areas of life, as well as human endeavors. In addition to being the site of our earliest evolution, aquatic systems are now recognised as fundamental to the regulation of atmospheric gases and to our climate. This course will provide a broad overview of the physical, chemical, geological, and biological aspects freshwater and marine systems. Human perspectives will focus on the conservation and exploitation of the resources found within and below lakes, rivers and oceans. Introduction to Aquatic Systems will provide a foundation for students wishing to pursue advanced courses in any area of aquatic study. !3!BIOL100,OR,BIOL101,AND,BIOL102,AND,CHEM101
ENSC204!Principles and Practices of Planning!History, theory, methods and processes in regional planning; contemporary issues and professional practices. !3!
ENSC210!Material and Energy Balances!This course provides an introduction to the analysis of environmental engineering processes using the laws of conservation of mass and energy.  Material and energy balances are applied to open and closed systems, non-reacting and reacting systems, and non-steady state systems. !0,3!CHEM200,AND,MATH200
ENSC302!Low Carbon Energy Development!This course provides an overview of low carbon energy sources. The course covers global resources, with a focus on energy development in British Columbia. Topics include environmental, economic and social aspects of nuclear, bioenergy, solar, geothermal, wind, hydro, and ocean energy.!3!
ENSC308!Northern Contaminated Environments!This course provides students with a broad knowledge base and a sound understanding of various environmental problems in the north, with particular emphasis on practical skills to address such problems. Topics include physical settings of the north; arctic ecology and environmental pollution, pollutant transport pathways in the Arctic, petroleum hydrocarbon pollution in marine and terrestrial environments, air pollution and climate change, industrial waste management, and environmental and human health risk assessment. !3!
ENSC312!Biometeorology!This course develops an understanding of the principles of weather and climate at micro-, local and meso- scales. It discusses the processes associated with transfers of heat, mass, and momentum and resulting climates near the surface. Other topics include fog, urban and forest climates, bioclimatology, local winds, as well as transport and dispersion of air pollution.!0,3!ENVS201,OR,ENSC201,AND,MATH1XX,OR,MATH152,OR,MATH100,OR,MATH115,OR,MATH105,OR,MATH150,OR,MATH101,OR,PHYS1XX,OR,PHYS100,OR,PHYS101,OR,PHYS110,OR,PHYS111,OR,PHYS115
ENSC325!Soil Physical Processes adn the Environment!This course focuses on physical principles and processes of soils thta influence organisms and the environment, including retention and movement of water, heat transfer, soil strength, gas exchange, transport of solutes, and soil erosion. Examples from areas of land resource management, environmental quality, agriculture and forestry are used to illustrate principles. !3!FSTY205
ENSC350!Fluid Mechanics!This course is an introduction to fluid mechanics for environmental science, engineering, physical geography, forestry and wildlife and fisheries students. The course covers the following topics: definition of fluid, fluid properties, variation of pressure in a fluid, hydrostatic forces, buoyancy, dimensional analysis, similarities, kinematics of flow, control volumes, continuity equation, momentum equation, energy equation, and flow in closed conduits . !3!MATH152,OR,MATH100,AND,MATH101,AND,PHYS100,OR,PHYS110
ENSC404!Waste Management!This course introduces environmental, technical and political aspects of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes. Topics include source, evaluative methods, risk assessment, treatment, disposal, and current legal and management requirements. !3!
ENSC406!Environmental Modelling!This course provides an understanding of the physical, chemical and biological processes that govern contaminant transport and fate in environmental media. Topics include modelling fundamentals, mass transport in aquatic ecosystems, and mathematical modeling of a wide variety of contamination issues, such as lake eutrophication, river water quality, groundwater contamination, atmospheric deposition, and climate change. Laboratory exercises will complement lecture topics and focus on the development of computer-based modelling skills. !0,3!MATH100,AND,MATH101,OR,MATH152
ENSC408!Storms!This course covers the analysis and dynamics of synoptic weather systems; cyclones and cyclogenesis; fronts, thunderstorms, jet streams and stability; thermodynamic charts, satellite imagery and weather forecasting. May be taught alternate years. !0,3!ENSC201,OR,ENVS201
ENSC412!Air Pollution!This is a multidisciplinary course focusing on air pollution: emissions, chemistry, air pollution meteorology and dispersion modelling, engineering and legislative controls, health effects, and airshed planning.!3!ENSC201,OR,ENVS201
ENSC417!Designing Solutions in Environmental Engineering!In this project-oriented course, students apply concepts and principles from Environmental Science and fundamentals from Engineering to design engineering solutions to environmental problems.  The course may include group projects and working with an industry in north/central BC.!6!
ENSC418!Environmental Measurement and Analysis!This is a capstone course for Environmental Science and Environmental Engineering Majors. It is a quantitative laboratory- and field-based course focusing on advanced environmental measurement and analysis of atmospheric, aquatic and terrestrial systems. The approach is integrative and problem-oriented; students may examine natural and/or managed systems, including engineering systems (e.g. waste management) and systems impacted by anthropogenic activity (e.g. contamination). !0,3!MATH240,OR,MATH371,OR,STAT240,OR,STAT371,AND,FSTY205,OR,GEOG210,AND,CHEM200,OR,CHEM201,OR,CHEM202,OR,CHEM203,OR,CHEM204,OR,CHEM210,OR,CHEM220
ENSC425!Climate Change and Global Warming!Climate change and global warming caused by human activity has become one of the most significant environmental, social and economic threats that we have faced. This course presents the science of global climate change and global warming. Emphasis is placed on scientific principles responsible for climate changes, observed evidence of global climate change and global warming, and future climate change. Course topics include climate system, greenhouse effect, El Nino, atmospheric and ocean circulation, Earth's past and present climate, climate models, future climate projection, and climate change impacts on Canada. !3!ENSC201
ENSC430!Undergraduate Thesis!The undergraduate thesis allows students in Environmental Science or Environmental Engineering to devote time to a concentrated piece of research. The thesis may be completed over one or two semesters. !6!
ENSC435!Soil Biological Processes and the Environment!Processes at the interface between the biosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere and lithosphere are critical to the regulation of environmental quality on Earth. This course provides an overview of the soil habitat from a biological perspective and of how soil organisms and the processes they mediate play critical roles in a sustainable planet. !3!FSTY205
ENSC440!Internship!May be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !2,6!
ENSC450!Environmental and Geophysical Data Analysis!The focus of this course is on the principles and practicality of the most common environmental and geophysical data analysis methods, including time series analysis and multivariate statistical analysis as well as their application in the environmental and natural sciences. This course consists of lectures and labs, where students apply theories and methods learned in lectures to solve practical problems using computers and software for statistical data analysis.!0,3!MATH371,OR,MATH240,OR,STAT371,OR,STAT240
ENSC451!Groundwater Hydrology!This course introduces fundamental principles of groundwater flow and their application to solve problems related to groundwater resources evaluation, development, and management. Topics include the role of groundwater in geological processes, the occurrence and movement of groundwater, steady-state and transient well hydraulics, aquifer testing techniques, unsaturated flow theory, and groundwater modeling techniques. Supporting computer software may be used. !3!MATH100,AND,MATH101,OR,MATH152
ENSC452!Reclamation & Remediation of Disturbed Environments!This course takes an integrative, scientific approach to the remediation and reclamation of drastically disturbed environments. Industrial activity and chemical spills can result in the contamination of soil, surface water, and groundwater. In addition, some industrial activities such as mining can cause large-scale disturbances to the landscape, potentially impacting both terrestrial and aquatic systems. The focus is on the remediation and reclamation of terrestrial systems, but aquatic systems are also included.!3!FSTY205,AND,CHEM200,OR,CHEM201,OR,CHEM202,OR,CHEM203,OR,CHEM204,OR,CHEM210,OR,CHEM220
ENSC453!Environmental Resource Management and Decision Making!This course introduces various decision-making models and methods to aid in environmental resources management. Topics include environmental economics, benefit-cost analysis, planning evaluation and review technique (PERT), linear programming, mulit-objective programming, integer programming, stochastic programming, dynamic programming, and nonlinear programming. A number of environmental systems serve as management examples, such as water resources, water quality, air quality, groundwater, solid waste, and forest ecosystem. Supporting computer software may be used. !3!MATH100,AND,MATH101,OR,MATH152
ENSC454!Snow and Ice!This course focuses on the physical processes involving snow and ice that greatly influence the hydrometerology of Northern BC and the remainder of Canada.  The goals of this course include gaining a better understanding of snowpack, permafrost, lake ice, and glacier formation and ablation processes, learning about the characteristics of snow and ice and how they will evolve with climate change, and conducting an extensive snow survey in the field. GEOG 210-3 and GEOG 412-3 are recommended as prerequisites. !3!ENSC201
ENSC460!Soil Chemical Processes and the Environment!Reactions at the interface of teh atmosphere, biosphere, hydrosphere and lithosphere play key roles in regulating environmental quality on Earth. This course focuses on the key chemical processes in soils, in the Earth's "Critical Zone."  The fundamental concepts of chemistry and mineralogy are applied to help students understand the soil system and its relevance to processes in natural ecosystems and environments impacted by human activity. !0,3!FSTY205
ENSC498!Special Topics!Selected environmental topics. May be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !1,6!
ENSC499!Independent Study!May be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !1,6!
ENVS101!Introduction to Environmental Citizenship!This course provides an introduction to the concept of "environmental citizen", and to the foundational elements of environmental studies, including social, ecological, humanistic and indigenous approaches to understanding human interactions with the natural environment. Development of skills in written communications is emphasized. !3!
ENVS306!Human Ecology!A review of ecological theory and research methods as they pertain to problems facing human societies today. !3!
ENVS309!Women and Environmental Studies!An analysis of various perspectives on women in science and women in environmental studies, including concepts such as ecological feminism. . !3!
ENVS311!Northern Perspectives!Viewpoints and issues particularly relevant to environmental issues and planning activities in Northern BC. !3!
ENVS325!Global Environmental Change: Science and Policy!This course provides both social and natural science students with a common vocabulary and trans- disciplinary understanding of the complex problems and issues of global environmental change science and policy.  Once a common vocabulary has been established, interdisciplinary approaches to current environmental problems are introduced and explored. !0,3!
ENVS326!Natural Resources, Environmental Issues and Public Engagement!This course examines public engagement mechanisms and the attributes of successful engagement with respect to environmental and resource management issues. It also addresses the socio-political and legal requirements for engagement with the public, including Aboriginal peoples. Exercises and critiques are used to provide students with practical experience in public engagement around environmental issues. !3!
ENVS414!Environmental and Professional Ethics!Analysis of environmental and natural resource issues from an ethical perspective; viewpoints and value systems that determine management decisions; professional ethics in natural resource management. !3!
ENVS440!Internship!May be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours). !2,6!
ENVS498!Special Topics!Selected environmental topics.  May be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !1,6!
ENVS499!Independent Study!May be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours). !1,6!
FNDS101!Ways of Knowing!This course introduces students to the "ways of knowing" that inform and shape the Humanities and Social Sciences. It is based on three main questions related to knowledge: What is it and how is it defined? How do we assess it? How do we communicate it? Related questions include: What forms does knowledge take? What counts as knowledge? Who has the power to define what counts as knowledge? Is there only one "truth?" How do we know what is credible? How do we share knowledge? Who gets to share knowledge? In other words, is knowledge political? What practices define the ways Humanities and Social Science disciplines define, assess and communicate knowledge? Student participation in "hands-on" learning is a key element of the course structure.!0,3!
FNDS102!Waves of Globalization!Globalization is one of the most popular words in the Social Sciences today. It is also one whose meaning has been much debated. The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the ways in which globalization has occurred, its causes and its consequences, as a way of better understanding what the concept means and how it affects us today.!0,3!
FNDS103!Foundations of Learning I!This course parallels and complements the other two FNDS courses offered during the same semester, and integrates foundational readings and course content. The course focuses on critical thinking; academic reading and writing; oral presentation; library skills; and peer learning. Students meet the course objectives by working together in cohorts to discuss and practice university-level standards for writing and critical thought.!0,3!
FNDS104!People, Places and Culture!This course focuses on how people are shaped by and shape their worlds and where they live. Peoples attachment to place is meaningful and the sense of place influences our identity and our social and cultural interactions with others and with the world. Different cultures and peoples within those cultures may hold various and diverse meanings of place. One person throughout their lifetime may even understand their place, and their place in the world, in different and changing ways. All of us are always in place somewhere. The goal of this course is to become aware of the impact being in place has on our lives and the lives of others by exploring the key concepts of place, identity and belonging.!0,3!
FNDS105!What is Security?!Focusing on different interpretations of the concept of security, students explore how security is subject to various interpretations over time and how different locations in society and across cultures can result in alternative understandings of security.!0,3!
FNDS106!Foundations of Learning II!This course parallels and complements the other two FNDS courses offered during the same semester, and integrates foundational readings and course content. The course focuses on critical thinking; academic reading and writing; oral presentation; library skills; and peer learning. Students meet the course objectives by working together in cohorts to discuss and practice university-level standards for writing and critical thought.!0,3!
FNDT106!Drawing and 2D Language I!This course introduces students to the methods, materials and concepts of drawing, both as a visual language and as a tool for enhancing perceptual awareness. While investigating process and developing a critical vocabulary, students will begin to acquire the skills to translate immediate observation and ideas into 2-dimensional form.  In-class projects and assignments will encompass various aspects of drawing, while visual presentations and class discussion will introduce students to contemporary and historical ideas of art and design. !3!
FNDT108!Creative Processes!Creative Processes Online is a studio course that introduces students to contemporary approaches to the creative process as it is expressed in art and/or design practices within a range of social, cultural, and personal contexts. Students are introduced to many media and methods of practice through online texts and media links.  Individual and group assignments are completed in either actual materials or digital applications. Assignments are submitted for review and discussion in forums and chats on the course website. !3!
FNDT109!Visual Communication!Visual Communication Online is a studio course that introduces students to the basic visual grammar and methodologies of visual communication through colour and design. In weekly exercises students explore point, line, shape, plane, texture, pattern, tone, hierarchy, contrast and composition. Visual presentations, group discussion and critique will analyze the use of these elements and principles in visual communication, contextualized in social, historical and contemporary frameworks. !3!
FNDT112!Drawing and 2D Language II!This continuation of Drawing and Two-Dimensional Language (FNDT 106) further explores the fundamentals of drawing (line, shape, tone, texture, volume, proportion, shadow, space, composition, scale, mark-making tools, and media). Exercises and projects continue work on perceptual and expressive drawing and hand-eye coordination. In-class projects and homework assignments will encompass various aspects of drawing while visual presentations and class discussion will introduce students to contemporary and historical ideas of art and design. !3!FNDT106
FNST100!The Aboriginal Peoples of Canada!This course is an introduction to the languages, history, culture and enduring presence of the aboriginal people of Canada, intended to explore the range of aboriginal social formations, both past and present, and to consider the future. Oral, written, and archaeological records will be examined. Special attention will be given to the crucial economic, social, and spiritual contacts that exist within aboriginal societies, as well as to materials on the changes that have occurred since the advent of the Europeans. !0,3!
FNST131!A First Nations Language: Level 1!This course provides an introduction to the conversational and written elements of one First Nations language. It may be taught in a number of different sections, each of which may focus on a different language, e.g. Gitxsanimx, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Chilcotin, or other Athabaskan language, Cree or Shushwap. Student transcripts will indicate the specific language studied. !3!
FNST132!A First Nations Language: Level 2!This course develops the reading, writing and speaking skills in a First Nations Language. It may be taught in a number of different sections, each of which may focus on a different language, e.g. Gitxsanimx, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Chilcotin, Cree or other Athabaskan language, or Shushwap. Student transcripts will indicate the specific language studied. !3!FNST131,OR,FNST101
FNST133!Dakelh / Carrier Language: Level 1!This course provides an introduction to the conversational and written elements of the Dakelh / Carrier language.!3!
FNST134!Dakelh / Carrier Language: Level 2!This course develops reading, writing, and speaking skills in the Dakelh / Carrier language.!3!FNST133
FNST135!Haisla Language (Xa'islak'ala): Level 1!This course provides an introduction to the conversational and written elements of the Xa'islak'ala language. !3!
FNST136!Haisla Language (Xa'islak'ala): Level 2!This course develops reading, writing, and speaking skills in the Xa'islak'ala language. !3!FNST135
FNST137!Tsimshian Language (Sm'algyax): Level 1!This course provides an introduction to the conversational and written elements of Sm'algyax. !3!
FNST138!Tsimshian Language (Sm'algyax): Level 2!This course develops reading, writing and speaking skills in Sm'algyax. !3!FNST137
FNST139!Nisga'a Language: Level 1!This course provides an introduction to the conversational and written elements of the Nisga'a language using materials from everyday life. !3!
FNST140!Nisga'a Language: Level 2!This course develops reading, writing, and speaking skills in the Nisga'a language. !3!FNST139
FNST143!Gitxsanimx: Level I!This course provides an introduction to the conversational and written elements of Gitxsanimx.!3!
FNST144!Gitxsanimx: Level 2!This course develops reading, writing, and speaking skills in Gitxsanimx.!3!FNST143
FNST145!Tsilhqot'in Language: Level 1!This course provides an introduction to the conversational and written elements of the Tsilhqot'in language.!3!
FNST146!Tsilhqot'in Language: Level 2!This course develops reading, writing, and speaking skills in the Tsilhqot'in language.!3!FNST145
FNST147!Tsilhqot'in Culture: Level 1!This course provides an introduction to Tsilhqot'in culture.!3!
FNST148!Tsilhqot'in Culture: Level 2!This course provides advanced study of Tsilhqot'in culture.!3!FNST147
FNST161!A First Nations Culture: Level 1!This course focuses on one First Nation's culture. It may be taught in a number of different sections, each of which may focus on a different culture, e.g. Haida, Gitxsan, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Chilcotin, or other Athabaskan culture, Shushwap, Metis. Student transcripts will indicate the specific culture studied. !0,3!
FNST162!A First Nations Culture: Level 2!This course focuses on one First Nation's culture. It may be taught in a number of different sections, each of which may focus on a different culture, e.g. Haida, Gitxsan, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Chilcotin, or other Athabaskan culture, Shushwap, Metis. Student transcripts will indicate the specific culture studied. !3!FNST161
FNST163!Dakelh / Carrier Culture: Level 1!This course provides an introduction to Dakelh / Carrier culture.!3!
FNST164!Dakelh / Carrier Culture: Level 2!This course provides advanced study of Dakelh / Carrier culture.!3!FNST163
FNST167!Tsimshian Culture: Level 1!This course provides an introduction to the Tsimshian culture. !3!
FNST168!Tsimshian Culture: Level 2!This course provides advanced study in Tsimshian culture. !3!FNST167
FNST169!Nisga's Culture: Level 1!This course provides an introduction to Nisga'a culture. !3!
FNST170!Nisga'a Culture: Level 2!This course provides advanced study of Nisga'a culture. !3!FNST169
FNST171!Metis Studies Level One!The course focuses on the Metis from their origins in the early Nineteenth Century, through the flowering of the Metis Nation on the Western Plains, to the situation of the Metis in contemporary Canadian society. !3!
FNST172!Metis Studies Level Two!Metis Studies Level Two: The Metis Nation and the Canadian State. During this course, we will look closely at the historic and contemporary relations between the Metis, the Canadian State, and the ramifications of state policies on the maintenance of the Metis as a distinct people.  We will also look at the way the Metis people, as individuals, have experienced the Canadian justice system. !3!FNST171
FNST173!Gitxsan Culture: Level 1!This course introduces students to Gitxsan culture.!3!
FNST174!Gitxsan Culture: Level 2!This course develops students knowledge of selected topics in Gitxsan culture.!3!FNST173
FNST200!Methods and Perspectives in First Nations Studies!This course provides an introduction to approaches to the cultures of contemporary First Nations, including ethics of research and working with communities. !3!FNST100
FNST203!Introduction to Traditional Ecological Knowledge!Designed for students with an interest in First Nations traditional ecological knowledge (TEK), this course takes an experiential approach to Indigenous ecological practices in British Columbia and beyond. Students explore and apply Indigenous ecological knowledge introduced through literatures, discussion, and visits by local knowledge holders.!3!FNST100
FNST205!Seminar in First Nations Studies!Defining questions for the discipline. Major topics in the discipline will be introduced through the study of published examples by well-known contributors. !3!
FNST206!First Nations Oral Literatures!An introduction to oral traditions, story-telling, and the analysis of discourse structures. !3!
FNST217!Contemporary Challenges Facing Aboriginal Communities!This is a survey course focusing on the contemporary challenges faced by Aboriginal peoples of Canada. In this course students research and participate in seminars on the specific challenges facing Aboriginal communities today. This includes specific challenges that arise out of the broader topic areas of language and culture, land rights, economics, governance, youth, education, health, social  services, violence, healing, community development, repatriation of cultural property, and decolonization.!3!FNST100
FNST220!Introduction to Linguistics!An introduction to linguistics with emphasis on aspects especially relevant to students interested in native languages of northern BC. !3!
FNST221!Practical Phonetics of First Nations Languages!An examination of the articulatory basis of human languages with an emphasis on the sounds of the First Nations languages of northern British Columbia.  Includes intensive practice in the recognition, production and description of classes of sounds and the use of a practical writing system for one or more target languages. !3!
FNST223!First Nations Language Immersion!This course provides intensive immersion experience in one First Nations language to facilitate development of conversational fluency.  It will be taught in a number of different sections, each of which will focus on a different language, e.g. Haida, Sm'algyax (Coast Tsimshian), Nisga'a, Gitxsanimx, Haisla, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Witsuwit'en, Dakelh / Carrier, Chilcotin, or another Athabaskan language: or Shushwap.  Student transcripts will indicate the specific language studied.!0,3!
FNST231!A First Nations Language: Level 3!This course provides an introduction to the conversational and written elements of one First Nations language. It may be taught in a number of different sections, each of which may focus on a different language, e.g. Gitxsanimx, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Chilcotin, or other Athabaskan language, or Shushwap. Student transcripts will indicate the specific language studied. !0,3!FNST132,OR,FNST102
FNST232!A First Nations Language: Level 4!This course provides an introduction to the conversational and written elements of one First Nations language. It may be taught in a number of different sections, each of which may focus on a different language, e.g. Gitxsanimx, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Chilcotin, or other Athabaskan language, or Shushwap. Student transcripts will indicate the specific language studied. !0,3!FNST231
FNST233!Dakelh / Carrier Language: Level 3!This course focuses on the development of speaking and understanding the Dakelh / Carrier language, including reading and writing skills, at the intermediate level.!3!FNST134
FNST234!Dakelh / Carrier Language: Level 4 (Advanced Intermediate)!This course focuses on the development of speaking and understanding the Dakelh / Carrier language, including reading and writing skills, at level 4 (advanced intermediate).!3!FNST233
FNST235!Haisla Language (Xa'islak'ala): Level 3!This course focuses on the development of speaking and understanding of the Xa'islak'ala language, including reading and writing skills, at the intermediate level.!3!FNST136
FNST236!Haisla Language (Xa'islak'ala): Level 4 (Advanced Intermediate)!This course focuses on the development of speaking and understanding of the Xa'islak'ala language, including reading and writing skills, at level 4 (advanced intermediate).!3!FNST235
FNST237!Ts'msyen Language (Sm'algyax): Level 3!This course focuses on the development of speaking and understanding of Sm'algyax, including reading and writing skills, at the intermediate level.!3!FNST138
FNST238!Ts'msyen Language: Level 4 (Advanced Intermediate)!This course focuses on the development of speaking and understanding of Sm'algyax, including reading and writing skills, at level 4 (advanced intermediate).!3!FNST237
FNST239!Nisga's Language: Level 3!The development of speaking and understanding of the Nisga'a language, and reading and writing skills at the Intermediate level. Materials studied will include modern texts as well as tapes of elders. !3!FNST140
FNST240!Nisga's Language: Level 4!The development of speaking and understanding of the Nisga'a language, and reading and writing skills at level 4 (advanced intermediate). Materials studied include modern texts as well as tapes of elders.!3!FNST239
FNST243!Gitxsanimx: Level 3!This course provides intermediate study of the conversational and written elements of Gitxsanimx.!3!FNST144
FNST244!Gitxsanimx: Level 4!This course provides advanced study of the conversational and written elements of Gitxsanimx, at level 4 (advanced intermediate).!3!FNST243
FNST245!Tsilhqot'in Language: Level 3!This course focuses on the development of speaking and understanding the Tsilhqot'in language, including reading and writing skills, at the intermediate level.!3!FNST146
FNST246!Tsilhqot'in Language: Level 4!This course focuses on the development of speaking and understanding the Tsilhqot'in language, including reading and writing skills at level 4 (advanced intermediate).!3!FNST245
FNST249!Aboriginal Resource Planning!This course is designed for students who have an interest in First Nations and planning.  It develops students' research, writing and communication skills.  This interdisciplinary course combines theory and practices from traditional land-use planning and First Nations practices and ideas concerning resource planning.  Students apply what they learn to issues of particular interest to First Nations in northern British Columbia.!3!FNST100
FNST261!A First Nations Culture: Level 3!This course focuses on one First Nations' culture. It may be taught in a number of different sections, each of which may focus on a different culture e.g. Haida, Gitxan, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Chilcotin, or other Athabaskan culture or Shushwap. Student transcripts will indicate the specific culture studied. !3!FNST162
FNST262!A First Nations Culture: Level 4!This course focuses on one First Nations' culture. It may be taught in a number of different sections, each of which may focus on a different culture, e.g., Haida, Gitxan, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Chilcotin, or other Athabaskan culture or Shushwap. Student trans- cripts will indicate the specific culture studied. !3!FNST261
FNST263!Dakelh / Carrier Culture: Level 3!This course provides advanced study in Dakelh / Carrier culture.!3!FNST164
FNST264!Dakelh / Carrier Culture: Level 4!This course provides advanced study in Dakelh / Carrier culture.!3!FNST263
FNST267!Tsimshian Culture: Level 3!This course provides advanced study in Tsimshian culture. !3!FNST168
FNST268!Tsimshian Culture: Level 4!This course provides advanced study in Tsimshian culture. !3!FNST267
FNST269!Nisga'a Culture: Level 3!This course provides advanced study in Nisga'a culture. !3!FNST170
FNST270!Nisga'a Culture: Level 4!This course provides advanced study in Nisga'a culture. !3!FNST269
FNST271!Metis Studies Level Three!Metis Studies Level Three: Metis Communities in Town and Country. In this course we look at the variety of Metis communities located in both rural and urban areas.  We will examine more specifically the manner in which these communities are formed, and the challenges that they face.  Our focus is on contemporary social and political issues. !3!FNST172
FNST272!Metis Studies Level Four: Working with Metis Communities!This class is designed to both develop and apply a set of research skills and competencies for working with Metis Communities.  In the first year of the course, we will be working on a research project in conjunction with members of the Metis community of Prince George, on the history of the Island Cache, an urban Metis Community which existed in Prince George until 1973.  The general design of the course is intended to both serve the research project we will undertake, and be flexible enough that should a similar project be requested by another Metis community, the course can be adapted to the specific purposes of future needs. !3!FNST271
FNST273!Gitxsan Culture: Level 3!This course introduces students to advanced study of specific topics in Gitxsan culture.!3!FNST174
FNST274!Gitxsan Culture: Level 4!This course introduces students to advanced study of specific topics in Gitxsan culture, including community-based research.!3!FNST273
FNST280!Aboriginal Medicine I - Harvesting and Preservation!This course provides students with an understanding of the traditional health knowledge of a specific Aboriginal group. Students are expected to participate in the identification, description, and methods of harvesting and preserving plants for medicinal purposes. This course is taught in the traditional territory of a specific Aborginal group. !3!FNST100
FNST281!Aboriginal Medicines II - Administering and Ethics!This course examines the treatment of diseases, administering of medicines and ethical practices and standards within traditional health knowledge of a specific Aboriginal group. Students are introduced to medicine from an Aboriginal worldview. This course is taught in the traditional territory of an Aboriginal group. !3!FNST280
FNST282!Aboriginal Health Philosophy!This is an introductory course that examines traditional health knowledge, Aboriginal approaches to health, connection to the land, Aboriginal worldviews and spirituality, family systems and the importance of traditional food to good health. Students are introduced to the traditional health teachings of a specific Aboriginal group. This course is taught in the traditional territory of an Aboriginal group. !3!FNST100
FNST283!Mtis Studies!This course examines the place of the Mtis in Canadian and American history and culture. It explores ways in which incorporations into Canada and the Canadian provinces and territories, as well as American states, affects the lives of the Mtis. This will take place through readings, lectures, discussions, guest speakers, biographies of influential Mtis and studies of Mtis organizations.!3!
FNST284!Dakelh Studies!This course is an introduction to the Dakelh cultures of British Columbia. The course will provide an overview of the philosophy, world view, oral histories, technologies and history of the Dakelh people. This course may provide focus on a particular Dakelh culture or it may be offered as a survey course of all Dakelh cultures in BC.!3!
FNST298!Special Topics in First Nations Studies!This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!1,3!
FNST300!Research Methods in First Nations Studies!Major methodologies such as participant observation, archival research, questionnaires, and statistical analysis will be reviewed and considered in the light of other goals of the discipline. !3!FNST200
FNST301!Art and Material Culture of BC First Nations!A survey of major sources in the literature on First Nations art and material culture with an emphasis on contemporary forms. First Nations artists will participate in the seminar. !3!
FNST302!First Nations Health and Healing!This is a seminar on the concepts of health and healing including a review of major published materials. Representatives of First Nations communities and organizations participate in the seminar.!3!
FNST303!First Nations Religion and Philosophy!A seminar on philosophy and religion in First Nations cultures. First Nations representatives will participate in the seminar. !3!
FNST304!Indigenous Environmental Philosophy!A seminar exploring Indigenous philosophy, knowledge, contemporary issues and perspectives, this interdisciplinary course draws on literature from fields such as traditional ecological knowledge (TEK), cultural ecology, ethnoscience, and international development.  Students develop research, writing and communications skills.!3!
FNST305!Seminar in First Nations Studies!Sources for the development of the discipline. The theoretical approaches of major contributors to the discipline will be examined in the context of theory in allied disciplines such as anthropology, literature and cultural studies. !3!FNST100
FNST306!Indigenous Women: Perspectives!The purpose of this course is twofold: first to understand how indigenous women's lives have been shaped by colonialism and secondly, to delineate the global themes in their current political, and social struggles to transcend the colonial legacy that continues to constrain them.!3!FNST100,OR,WMST100
FNST310!Lisims Summer & Fall Fishery!Lisims Anadromous Summer and Fall Fisheries in Nisga'a Culture and History. This course provides an opportunity to study the relationship between Nisga'a and anadromous summer and fall fisheries, primarily Salmonids.  The course content focuses on Nisga'a culture, history, environmental philosophy and knowledge of these fisheries.  Course content will include a holistic discussion of the fisheries, including such topics as spirituality, politics and diplomacy, traditional science and technology, and fisheries resource management.  Students already receiving credit in FNST 304-3 at WWN prior to passage of this motion will not be eligible to receive credit in FNST 310-3. !3!FNST100,OR,FNST169
FNST311!Lisims Winter & Spring Fishery!The Spring Anadromous Fisheries of Lisims in Nisga'a Culture and History. This course provides an opportunity to study the relationship between Nisga'a and spring anadromous fisheries.  The focus will be on important fisheries of oolichan and early salmon, such as steelhead.  The course content will focus on Nisga'a culture, history, environmental philosophy and knowledge of these fisheries. Course content will include a holistic discussion of the fisheries, including such topics as spirituality, politics and diplomacy, traditional science and technology, and fisheries resource management.  Students already receiving credit in FNST 498-3 at WWN prior to passage of this motion will not be eligible to receive credit for FNST 311-3. !3!FNST100,OR,FNST169
FNST312!Image of the Indian in Film!This course explores the history of images of the Indian in film and how such images continue to influence the ongoing relationships between Indigenous and settler societies today. Included in this course is an exploration of the images presented by Indigenous filmmakers themselves. !3!FNST100
FNST313!Healing within Art: Space, Time and Materials!This course examines healing within art from an Indigenous perspective, including fundamental concepts of expressive art as a healing force, creating a space and time for healing within art, and use of basic material such as paint, clay and collage for therapeutic purposes. This course emphasizes experiential learning methods, where students create, process and share art. Students gain an understanding of the socio-political contexts of personal struggles and successes, as well as learn to apply Indigenous spiritual philosophies. !3!FNST100
FNST315!Aboriginal Health Management!This course examines government policies dedicated to the improvement of Aboriginal health in Canada. Population health, prevention and health promotion theories are explored as well as current health management structures in place in Aboriginal communities. This course is designed to be delivered in collaboration with an Aboriginal/First Nations community partner. !3!FNST282
FNST316!Aboriginal Health and Chronic Illness!This course provides students an opportunity to examine critically the current health status of Aboriginal people, including the incidence of chronic illness and mental health issues. Students are introduced to traditional Aboriginal healing practices intended to address the current state of Aboriginal health. This course is designed to be delivered in collaboration with an Aboriginal/First Nations community partner. !3!FNST281
FNST317!Aboriginal Healing Practices!This course focuses on the traditional healing practices of a specific Aboriginal/First Nations group. Students are expected to participate in the organization, preparation, and hosting of one or more traditional healing practice. This course is taught in the traditional territory of a specific Aboriginal group. !3!FNST281
FNST320!The Structure of a First Nations Language!An introduction to the linguistic structure of a First Nations language - words, phrases and sentences. Student transcripts will indicate the specific language studied. !3!FNST220
FNST321!Adv Composition/Conversation I!First Nations Advanced Composition and Conversation, Level 1. Advanced composition and conversation, using texts and tapes including poetry. !3!FNST232,OR,FNST234,OR,FNST236,OR,FNST238,OR,FNST240
FNST322!Adv Composition/Conversatn II!First Nations Advanced Composition and Conversation, Level 2. Advanced composition and conversation, using texts and tapes including poetry. !3!FNST321
FNST323!First Nations Advanced Translation and Transcription!Translation and transcription from English to a First Nations language and back. !3!
FNST324!Advanced First Nations Language Immersion!This course provides advanced intensive immersion experience in one First Nations language to extend and deepen student skills and fluency in conversation and other oral genres (public speaking, storytelling, etc.).  It will be taught in a number of different sections, each of which will focus on a different language, e.g. Haida, Sm'algyax (Coast Tsimshian), Nisga'a, Gitxsanimx, Haisla, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Witsuwit'en, Dakelh / Carrier, Chilcotin, or another Athabaskan language, or Shushwap.  Student transcripts will indicate the specific language studied. May be repeated for up to 3 additional credits with permission of the Program Chair; if repeated, credits may substitute for an advanced language course in the relevant language with permission of the Dean.!3!FNST223
FNST325!First Nations Language Mentoriing!This course provides an opportunity for students of First Nations languages to work with fluent speakers in a mentoring or apprenticeship context to develop language skills.  It will be available in a number of different sections, each of which will focus on a different language, e.g. Haida, Sm'algyax (Coast Tsimshian), Nisga'a, Gitxsanimx, Haisla, Tlingit, Sekani, Beaver, Slavey, Tahltan, Witsuwit'en, Dakelh / Carrier, Chilcotin, or another Athabaskan language, or Shushwap, Student transcripts will indicate the specific language studied.  Co-requisite FNST 220-3 or FNST 221-3.!3!FNST220,OR,FNST221,AND,FNST220,OR,FNST223
FNST350!Canadian Law and Aboriginal Peoples!An examination of the constitution, Indian Act, treaties, court decisions, and laws as they relate to the government and politics of aboriginal peoples.!3!FNST100,OR,POLS100
FNST400!Community-based Research Proj!Community-based Research Project Applying First Nations Research Methods. Group projects will be undertaken in partnership with a community or organization under the supervision of a faculty member. !3!FNST300
FNST405!Extending The Discipline!Advanced Seminar in First Nations Studies: Extending the Discipline. A seminar on the theory and practice of First Nations Studies emphasizing critiques of theory; this seminar is an excellent preparation for graduate training. !3!FNST400
FNST406!Comparative Rhetoric and Discourse!This course is a seminar in which examples of contemporary rhetoric are considered as aesthetic and cultural performances. !3!
FNST407!Race/Class/Gender/Power!First Nations Perspectives on Race, Class, Gender and Power. An advanced seminar in which First Nations writings regarding experience of race, class, gender, and power will be discussed in relation to contemporary theory. !0,3!
FNST408!Clothing and Adornment!First Nations Clothing and Adornment. In this course, we will look at the clothing and personal adornment of First Nations people in North America, particularly Canada. We will examine clothing styles of the past and the traditional clothing styles worn today by First Nations. We will consider the resources used in the manufacture of materials, the science of clothing manufacture, the cultural meaning of clothing and adornment and the clothing of a number of culture areas. This course will provide students an opportunity to create an item of First-Nations-style clothing or ornamentation for part of the grade. The course will begin with a discussion of possible projects, materials and techniques and then will move to a series of lectures. A number of classes thereafter will involve actual work on projects while short presentations are given by the instructor, guest speakers and class members. !3!FNST301
FNST409!Reincarnation & Rebirth!Indigenous Perspectives on Reincarnation and Rebirth. This seminar will review Indigenous philosophy on the subject of reincarnation and rebirth, both of humans and of the animal realm of four-legged, winged and finned creatures of this earth. The importance of these philosophies will be reviewed in terms of Indigenous concepts of psychology and the nature of personality, of ecological concerns, of spirit dimensions as well as of nationhood. The course will briefly compare Indigenous concepts of reincarnation and rebirth with those in Africa and the Hindu and Buddhist traditions, but the emphasis is on North American Indigenous thought and experience regarding returning and rebirth. !3!
FNST410!Advanced Topics: Art & Culture!Advanced Topics in First Nations Art & Material Culture. Advanced Topics in First Nations Art and Material Culture of BC First Nations: A survey of major sources in the literature on focused topics in First Nations Art and Material Culture with an emphasis on contemporary forms. Topical focus may vary with each offering, ranging from clothing and adornment of First Nations Peoples; Northwest Coast design and carving; Metis material culture, etc. The course may cover traditional and contemporary material, sources of materials and science of artists will participate in the seminar, and students will work on projects as well as participate in seminars with the instructor, guest speakers and class members. !3,6!FNST301
FNST411!Advanced Topics: Religion/Phil!Advanced Topics in Indigenous Religion and Philosophy. Advanced Topics in Indigenous Religion and Philosophy will review indigenous philosophies on selected topics (such as relations with animals or luck and hunting). The significance of the philosophies will be considered in the light of indigenous concepts of psychology and personality, ecological concerns, and nationhood. First Nations representatives will participate in the seminar. !3,6!FNST303
FNST412!Political Economy and First Nations Women!The purpose of this course is to understand how the political economy acts upon First Nations women's lives in and beyond their home communities as well as to offer comparative examples of similar processes from elsewhere in the new world and from Asia and Africa. !3!
FNST413!Topics in Aboriginal Women's Studies!This course explores topics relating to aboriginal women in both Canadian and international contexts.  Topics may vary from year to year.  This course may be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !3,6!FNST100,OR,WMST100
FNST416!International Perspective!Indigenous Issues in International Perspective. An advanced seminar in which issues such as land rights, relations to nation states, and cultural harmony are examined by presenting cases from a variety of indigenous groups. This course may be taught as 416-3/606-3. !3!FNST100
FNST420!Developing Language Materials!A presentation of design goals and practical considerations in the preparation of reference and pedagogical materials for poorly documented languages, with an emphasis on languages of Northern BC. !3!FNST220
FNST421!First Nations Songs and Poetry!A study of songs and poetry in a First Nations' language. !3!FNST232,OR,FNST234,OR,FNST236,OR,FNST238,OR,FNST240
FNST422!First Nations Speeches and Stories!A study of speeches and stories in a First Nations' language. Analysis of the various linguistic variations which accompany different kinds of speeches and stories. !3!FNST232,OR,FNST234,OR,FNST236,OR,FNST238,OR,FNST240
FNST423!Study of 1st Nat Lang Family!A Study of a First Nations' Language Family and Its Linguistic Relatives. This course will include a survey and comparison of the languages in a particular language family; the evidence for the genetic affiliation of the languages; the correspondences among the languages and reconstruction of the proto-language; the evidence for subgrouping; discussion of possible remoter relations of the family; interaction with neighboring languages; implications for prehistory. !3!FNST232,OR,FNST234,OR,FNST236,OR,FNST238,OR,FNST240
FNST424!The Literature of a First Nation!A study of a First Nations' literature in a First Nations' language. !3!FNST232,OR,FNST234,OR,FNST236,OR,FNST238,OR,FNST240
FNST425!Oral History!This course examines the foundations of oral traditions and oral history methods within academic research. It provides students with an understanding of the importance of oral research methods and an opportunity to expand and enhance this understanding through presentations by First Nations resource people, readings, assignments, online and material resources as well as class discussions. This course incorporates Indigenous perspectives to examine Indigenous worlds through the lens of storytelling methods and collective narrative memory.!3!FNST100
FNST440!Internship in First Nations Studies!May be repeated once for a total of six credit hours. !3,6!
FNST444!Experiential Course in First Nations Studies!Students participate in an Indigenous community and/or land based experiential learning environment that provides opportunities for them to study applied knowledge relative to local and global contexts. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!
FNST451!Traditional Use Studies!An advanced seminar on traditional use studies, their use, application, and development. The seminar will examine the origins and development of this field, review case studies and recent applications, and contemporary policies. !3!ANTH101,OR,FNST100
FNST497!Senior Project in First Nations Studies!3,6!
FNST498!Special Topics in First Nations Studies!This course examines in detail topics selected by the instructor.  This course may be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !3,6!
FNST499!Independent Study in First Nations Studies!This course enables students to read in depth in an area of First Nations Studies not normally covered by established principal or ancillary courses in the First Nations Studies program.  This course may be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !3,6!
FSTY201!Forest Plant Systems!This course provides knowledge and understanding of classification, nomenclature and identification, morphology, phenology, range, natural history, evolutionary relationships, and basic ecology of important trees (native and exotic) and forest plant families (woody and herbaceous) in western Canada. The course also provides a survey of plant indicator potential and attributes significant to vegetation management. The course includes the development of a plant collection and field trips are required. !0,3!BIOL100,OR,BIOL101,AND,BIOL102,AND,FSTY205
FSTY205!Introduction to Soil Science!Chemical, physical, and biological properties of forest soils; fundamentals of soil formation; soil-water-plant relations, soil ecology amd soil fertility. Field trips required. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!CHEM100,AND,CHEM101,AND,CHEM120,AND,CHEM121
FSTY207!Terrestrial Ecological Classification!Terrestrial Ecological Classification explores the critical concepts and methodology of classifying terrestrial ecosystems. The course explores the historical context and attributes of several systems of ecological classification. The primary focus is Biogeoclimatic Ecosystem Classification, the standard for natural resource managers in BC. The course also explores regional examples of site classification. !1!BIOL101,AND,BIOL102
FSTY209!Forest Biology and Silvics!Forest Biology and Silvics explores critical aspects of the biology of forest floor organisms and the autecology of associated regional tree species. The course also examines the biology and ecology of forest ecosystems, the structure and function of forest trees and stands, the influence of biotic and abiotic factors on tree and stand growth, interactions between forest ecosystems and ecological site conditions, and silvicultural attributes of tree species of Western Canada. !4!BIOL101,AND,BIOL102,AND,FSTY201
FSTY305!Silviculture!Silviculture examines forest ecology, stand dynamics, basic management practices and harvesting. Content includes stand dynamics, natural and artificial regeneration methods, site preparation, intermediate stand treatments, silvicultural systems, forest harvesting concepts and practices, and relationships of natural resource management to silviculture practices. Field trips are required. !0,4!FSTY201,AND,FSTY205,AND,NREM203,AND,FSTY209
FSTY307!Disturbance Ecology and Forest Health!This lecture course explores principles and concepts of disturbance ecology, including examples of fire, disease and insects. Links between anthropomorphic disturbances, forest health problems, and approaches to forest health management are explored. !0,3!FSTY201,AND,FSTY207,AND,FSTY209
FSTY310!Forest Economics!Contemporary issues in the allocation of natural resources. Economic concepts and tools applied to the forestry, recreation, and other natural resource sectors. !3!ECON100
FSTY317!Forest Disturbance Agents!This laboratory course focuses on the identification of pathogens and insects of importance in forest health. The course is required for students in the Natural Resources Management degree Forest Ecology and Management major, and it should be taken concurrently with FSTY 307-3. Field trips are required. !1!FSTY307
FSTY405!Forest Growth and Yield!This course explores factors influencing forest yields, traditional prediction methods, and growth and yield simulation.  The course also explores stand dynamics, quantitative implications of management treatments and environmental limitations to tree and stand growth. !0,3!NREM203,AND,MATH152,AND,FSTY305,AND,STAT240
FSTY407!Forest Products!Properties, values and the processing of forest products including wood, pulp and paper, pharmaceuticals, and other botanical products. Life cycle analysis of products manufactured from wood and its derivatives. Value-added strategies and product diversification through manufacturing and marketing. Field trips required. !0,3!CHEM100,AND,CHEM101
FSTY408!Forest Practices and Management!This course examines principles and operational practices for the management of forest land, including forest estate planning, harvest scheduling, and legislative requirements. !3!
FSTY415!Forest Soils!This course examines the distinctive physical, chemical and biological properties of forest soils from an ecological perspective, emphasizing western Canadian examples. Major themes include the role of soils in forest site classifications, carbon and nutrient cycling in forests, soil determinants of forest productivity, and the responses of soils to forest management practices. Field trips and laboratory exercises provide experience in techniques used for assessing forest soil properties and management impacts. !0,3!FSTY205
FSTY425!Soil Formation and Classification!Examination of soil formation with emphasis on environmental forces including human activity as a factor of soil formation; distribution and classification of soils of northern and interior BC; correlation of Canadian System of Soil Classification with international systems of classification such as Soil Taxonomy and FAO-UNESCO Soil Map of the World. Field trips required. !0,3!FSTY205
FSTY440!Internship!May be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours). !2,6!
FSTY498!Special Topics!May be repeated for credit (maximum of 3 credit hours). !3!
FSTY499!Independent Study!May be repeated for credit (maximum of 6 credit hours). !1,6!
GEOG100!Environments and People: The Geography of Natural Hazards!This course is intended to introduce students to the Earth's physical processes that are hazardous to people. Students will be able to identify which regions of the world are at greatest risk for a given hazard and how humans can mitigate the loss of life and property.!3!
GEOG101!Human Geographies of Global Change!This course examines global issues of development and change from a human geographic perspective. Students focus especially on the interconnectedness of places in the world and the range of local responses to widespread change processes.!3!
GEOG111!Theory and Practice of Physical Geography!This course introduces physical geography students to the theory and practice of physical geography, particularly in BC, through seminars and invited presentations involving professional practitioners in the region and province. A weekend field trip is required. This course is intended for students who want to major in Physical Geography. !1!
GEOG200!Geography of BC!This course provides an introduction to the biophysical and human landscapes of British Columbia with a special emphasis on the relationship of Northern BC to the rest of the province. This course takes a regional approach to understanding the links between the physical geography of the province and its settlement patterns, resource use and economic development. !3!
GEOG202!Economic Geography of Resources and Sustainability!British Columbia is a resource exporting economy that competes in the global marketplace. With a focus on both renewable and non-renewable resources, this course examines economic, community, and environmental issues that support and/or limit sustainable development. Topics include energy, minerals, food, water, natural and cultural amenities, and ecosystem products and services.!3!
GEOG203!Roots, Ruggedness, and Rituals: A Geography of Canada!Regionally and nationally, this course examines Canada, its peoples, and our diverse environments. Students consider Aboriginal/non-Aboriginal/Mtis identity, Canadian culture, national fault lines, symbols, icons, and trends, focusing on shared patterns and divergent distinctions in Canadian development, change, and future possibilities.!3!
GEOG204!Introduction to GIS for the Social Sciences!To manipulate database and spatial information and to create GIS-based illustrations and maps.  This lab-based introductory course will provide a foundation in GIS for Social Scientists.  Students will incorporate data searching and acquisition, manipulation of information in spreadsheets, reviewing quality of data, spatial properties of geographic information, linking meta-data to spatial features, basic cartographic techniques and map production. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture, lab, and tutorial components. !0,3!
GEOG205!Cartography and Geomatics!This course examines mapping techniques and thematic layers, using GIS software in the labs. Topics include coordinate systems, symbolization, terrain depiction and visualization, aerial photography, satellite images and Global Positioning Systems (GPS). It introduces students to the world of maps and top Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technology. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!
GEOG206!Society and Space!Social relations, social identities, and social inequalities are open to geographical exploration. These relations are negotiated and contested in different spaces at different times. This course critically examines the ways in which social relations, identities, and inequalities are produced, their spatial variation, and the role of space in constructing them. Geographic dimensions of various facets of identity (such as gender, ethnicity, "race," class, sexuality, and ability) and the theoretical frameworks that geographers use to analyze them are central.!0,3!GEOG100,OR,GEOG101
GEOG209!Migration and Settlement!Urbanization, globalization, and international migration are dynamic processes related to human settlement and are changing our social and physical spaces. This course examines major theoretical approaches to global migration processes and the settlement form and organization resulting from migration, refugee  movements, and globalization, with particular emphasis on reconfigured urban and rural spaces in Canada.!3!
GEOG210!Geomorphology!The nature and formation of major landforms of the earth's surface. Consideration is given to rock weathering and slope movement, erosional and depositional effects of wind, wave-action, water and ice movement. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!PHYS115,OR,CORE102,OR,PHYS100,OR,PHYS101,OR,PHYS110,OR,PHYS111
GEOG220!World Regions: Latin America and the Caribbean!Struggles for land, labour, and resources are central themes in Latin America and the Caribbean. We examine this diverse region as a landscape of inequality with extremes in poverty and wealth dating from the European invasion. Uneven  development across time and space is characterized by growing hunger, narco-trafficking, agro-exports, resource extraction, organized crime, undocumented migration, and environmental degradation, as well as resilience and grassroots mobilization for positive change.!3!
GEOG222!World Regions: Russia!This course explores the interaction of physical and human landscapes of Russia.  Special attention is paid to nationality issues, energy and other resource developments, the changing state of environmental management, and Russia's shifting geopolitical role in the world.!3!
GEOG300!Geographical Information Systems!This lab-based course examines the data management and analysis capabilities of GIS, with special emphasis on natural resources and environmental studies. Topics include methods of data input, co-ordinate systems, data sources, attributes, formats and conversion, digital elevation data, raster-vector models, data availability and quality. Lectures introduce two labs per week. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!
GEOG301!Cultural Geography!Cultural products, such as music, cuisine, language, and religion, have spatial expressions. Through cultural norms, products and activities, we create places and construct landscapes. This course examines the influence of power relations, cultural imperialism, globalization, and cultural resistances on the human organization of space and on how people engage with place. This is a writing-intensive course, emphasizing improvement of upper-division level written communication through iterative editing.!3!GEOG100,OR,GEOG101,OR,GEOG206
GEOG305!Political Ecology!Using examples from the local to the global, this course examines the geopolitics and power relations of environmental resource use, knowledge production, policy, and decision-making. It focuses on access, power, and ownership with respect to environment, environmental discourses, and resources, using geography as a lens for understanding political ecology, and political ecology as a lens for examining environmental relationships.!3!GEOG100,OR,ENVS100,OR,GEOG201,OR,GEOG101
GEOG306!Geography of Intl Development: Places, People, Policies, and Promises!Using examples from the local to the global, this course investigates development theory and practice, including key theories, concepts, and trends. We use international case studies to understand global inequality, debt, foreign aid, disasters, displacement, development-related health issues, gender considerations, and differential access to services and assistance. The course examines persistent problems and seeks examples of progress, promise, and hope.!0,3!GEOG100,OR,ENVS100,OR,GEOG201,OR,GEOG101,OR,GEOG206
GEOG307!Changing Arctic: Human and Environmental Systems!Climate change, energy securit, globalization, pollution, and self-determination in the Arctic are major issues that confront both Arctic societies and the world at large.  This course examines the cultural, economic, environmental, political and social dimensions of sustainable development in the Circumpolar North through a geographic lens.!3!GEOG100,OR,ENVS100,OR,GEOG201
GEOG308!Environments of Health and Care!This course examines the importance of environments of daily living to individual and collective experiences of health and health care.!3!GEOG100,OR,GEOG101
GEOG310!Hydrology!This course is an introduction to physical hyrdology. It examines the components of the hydrological cycle, and investigates the processes of water movement and storage in the environment.!0,3!ENVS201,OR,ENSC201,AND,MATH240,OR,STAT240
GEOG311!Drainage Basin Geomorphology!This course focuses on hillslope and fluvial processes in drainage basins. Laboratory exercises introduce quantitative methods to understand patterns of sediment production, movement, and storage in mountain watersheds.!0,3!GEOG210,AND,PHYS100,AND,MATH240,OR,STAT240
GEOG312!Geomorphology of Cold Regions!This course provides a detailed examination of the processes and landforms of cold regions. !3!GEOG210
GEOG320!Sedimentology!This course considers processes that deposit sediments in Earth's diverse environments that include lakes, rivers, and oceans. At the end of the course students will be able to reconstruct environmental conditions that led to formation of stratified earth materials. Principles of lithostratigraphy, biostratigraphy, chronostratigraphy, sequence statigraphy, and the facies concept are key topics of the course. Please note: You must register separately in lecture and lab components, if applicable. !0,3!GEOG210
GEOG333!Geography Field Camp!Students apply field methods in physical and/or human geography towards an integrated study of local and global environments. !3!
GEOG401!Tenure, Conflict, and Resource Geography!This course examines global resources and their role in questions of conservation and economic development. Emphasis is placed on global and international resource issues and the role of public policy. !0,3!GEOG101,OR,GEOG202,OR,GEOG100
GEOG403!Aboriginal Geography!This course analyzes First Nations and Indigenous traditional land tenure systems, colonial processes of land alienation, and Indigenous methods for regaining control over territory, including land claims, co-management, and legal reforms. Case studies are drawn from Canadian and international examples.!3!GEOG206,OR,GEOG101
GEOG405!Fluvial Geomorphology!This course investigates river channel morphometry and landforms developed by running water and focuses on the physical processes and techniques of measurement. Weekend field trips are required.!0,3!GEOG311
GEOG411!Quaternary and Surficial Geology!This course examines geomorphic processes and environmental change in BC during the last two million years of Earth's history. !0,3!GEOG311
GEOG413!Advanced GIS!A project-oriented course following on from GEOG 300-3 and including topics such as spatial data set construction, data conversion, advanced digital elevation modelling, visualization and integration of raster imagery. !0,3!GEOG300
GEOG414!Weathering Processes!This course provides a detailed investigation of weathering processes and their applied aspects. !0,3!GEOG312,OR,GEOG412
GEOG420!Geographies of Environmental Justice!This course examines ongoing environmental justice debates over expertise, access, rights, and compensation, in the context of environmental racism and responses to it. It considers connections between space, place, identity, and justice in contaminated environments. It explores scholarship and activism, and students learn about Canadian and international cases studies related to resource extraction; manufacturing and industrial processes; waste disposal; access to basic services; trade; and tourism.!3!
GEOG424!Social Geography of Northern Communities!This advanced seminar course examines the social geography of rural and small-town communities within the specific context of the North. The case-study content focuses on specific examples from northern British Columbia. This is a project-based course where students work towards a class-based social geography study of selected northern communities.!3!
GEOG426!Geographies of Culture, Rights & Power!This seminar examines geographical approaches to culture, rights, and power as they relate to issues of political violence experienced by indigenous peoples, labour organizations, and social movements. Primary geographical focus is on the Mesoamerican region, particularily Guatemala, El Salvador, and Chiapas, Mexico. Implications for Canada and the United States are explored through consideration of refugee movements, foreign policy, and grassroots solidarity organizing. !3!GEOG206,OR,GEOG301
GEOG428!Health Geography in Practice!Students conduct research on health geography topics approved by the instructor. Students may choose to work individually or in groups.!0,3!GEOG308
GEOG430!Undergraduate Thesis!Student must have completed at least 90 credit hours of study and be a Geography major. The thesis may be taken in one or two semesters in the senior year. !3,6!
GEOG432!Remote Sensing!Digital processing of satellite imagery and integration with raster and vector GIS technology in natural resources and remote sensing of the environment.  Topics include sensor platforms and data collection, pre-processing, enhancement, classification, change detection, multi-data integration and vectorization. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!GEOG205,OR,GEOG300
GEOG440!Internship!May be repeated for credit (maximum 6 credit hours). !2,6!
GEOG457!Advanced Remote Sensing!This project-oriented course focuses on advanced classification procedures incorporating digital elevation data, fuzzy and object-oriented classification, and new millenium data sources including ASTER, RADAR, MODIS, LiDAR and high-resolution scenes. Repeat imagery is used to assess local and global changes in land cover, oceanic, atmospheric and/or cryospheric environments. !0,3!GEOG432
GEOG498!Special Topics!May be repeated for credit (maximum 3 credit hours) !1,3!
GEOG499!Independent Studies!Concentration on a particular topic agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student (maximum 6 credit hours). !3,6!
GEOG657!Advanced Remote Sensing!This project-oriented course focuses on advanced classification procedures incorporating digital elevation data, fuzzy and object-oriented classification, and new millennium data sources including ASTER, RADAR, MODIS, LiDAR and high-resolution scenes. Repeat imagery is used to assess local and global changes in land cover, oceanic, atmospheric and/or cryospheric environments. !0,3!GEOG632
HHSC101!Introduction to Health Sciences I: Issues and Controversies!This course provides a review of current issues and controversies with respect to individual and population health. Topics covered include infectious disease, cancer, genetic disease, behavioural determinants of health, addictive behaviour, eating behaviour and the role of nutrition in chronic disease.!3!
HHSC102!Intro to Health Sciences II!Introduction to Health Sciences II: Rural and Aboriginal Issues. This course will provide an overview of individual and population health, health care systems, legislation, and the roles of the various health care professions in rural and aboriginal communities. Models of interdisciplinary cooperation, models of community health, and ethical issues are also covered. !3!
HHSC103!Health Care Systems!This course examines health care systems from a public versus private perspective and explores how various systems impact the health and well-being of patients. !3!
HHSC105!Functional Anatomy!This introductory anatomy course provides a macroscopic examination of the human body. Lecture topics include musculoskeletal system and mobility, major organ systems including cardiovascular, digestive and neurological, with emphasis on how these systems integrate for body function. A laboratory component is included. This course is appropriate for students who intend to enter health profession fields. !0,3!
HHSC110!Basic Microbiology!Presents the basic principles of microbiology with an emphasis on the relevance of these principles to human health. A survey of the major types of microorganisms and a discussion on how they are classified and identified is addressed. An introduction to virology and bacterial metabolism including environmental factors which affect microbial growth and survival, is presented. A laboratory component is included. !3!
HHSC111!Anatomy and Physiology I!This course is the first half of a comprehensive survey of the structures and functions of the human organ systems. Lecture topics include cellular physiology, histology, and studies of the integumentary, skeletal, nervous and endocrine systems.  A laboratory component is included. This course is appropriate for students who intend to enter health profession fields.!0,4!
HHSC112!Anatomy and Physiology II!This course is a continuation of HHSC 111-4. It is designed to cover the anatomy and physiology of the muscular, cardio- vascular, lymphatic, respiratory, digestive, urinary, and reproductive systems. Emphasis is on the importance of homeostasis and how it is maintained by the concerted proper functioning of the body systems. A laboratory component is included.!0,4!HHSC111
HHSC201!Ethics and Law in Health Care!This course examines ethical and legal concepts as applied to health care research. Further, students explore how new technology and therapeutic practices change the parameters of ethical and moral reasoning, and the impact this has on health law. In addition, students are exposed to ethical practices and policies that form the foundation of health related research. !3!
HHSC301!Pathophysiology!This lecture course examines central concepts in pathophysiology. Topics include cell-tissue biology, mechanisms of self-defense, and alterations to organs and systems, all in relation to human health. !3!HHSC112
HHSC311!Nutrition!This course reviews nutrient requirements across the lifespan and physiological connections of diet to health and disease. Therapeutic aspects of parenteral nutrition (total and peripheral) and special diets in disease states are covered. !3!
HHSC330!Health Information Management Technology!This course examines the birth and evolution of Health Information Management Technology (HIMT) within the health care system. Topics include the nature of data gathering and analysis in evidence-based practice, the determination of health resource needs, and the application of HIMT in risk management, epidemiology and demographics. It is strongly recommended thatthe students have a working knowledge of spreadsheets and familiarity with databases before taking this course. !3!
HHSC350!Introduction to Epidemiology!This course applies epidemiological principles in the examination of patterns of disease and disability among populations,particularily those in northern latitudes. It introduces students to the interpretation of vital statistics, the critique of cross-sectional, case-control and cohort design, and the principles of screening. Note: This course is cross-listed with NURS 306-3. !3!
HHSC351!Research Design and Methods for Health Sciences!This course examines qualitative and quantitative research methods and design in the health field and the ethical and legal issues associated with health care research. !3!ECON205,OR,MATH240,OR,STAT240
HHSC370!Occupational Health!This course introduces students to the scientific basis of occupational health, specifically the revelant principles and concepts of injury prevention, disability management, ergonomics, toxicology, wellness and the general concepts of healthy workplaces. The nature of common occupational health hazards and their effect on humans is examined. Examples of common preventative and protective measures and controls are also reviewed. !3!
HHSC420!Interdisciplinary Child Welfare Practice!This elective course will identify and provide opportunities to practice the skill, knowledge, abilities and beliefs necessary for collaborative, interdisciplinary practice in child welfare.  The course will explore the meaning, context and skills of interdisciplinary practice.  It will provide opportunities for understanding the rationale for interdisciplinary practice as well as exploring a critical analysis of interdisciplinary practice.  Finally, it will provide opportunities to understand the perspectives and interdependence of the differing disciplines as they relate to child welfare. !3!
HHSC421!Medical Geography!This course examines the importance of environments of daily living to individual and collective experiences of health and health care.!3!
HHSC430!Toxicology and Environmental Health!This course provides an overview of the basic prinicples of environmental toxicology.  The occurrence and health effects of the following toxicants are discussed: inorganic ions and anions, metals, hydrocarbons, polychlorinated biphenyls and polychlorodibenzo-p-dioxins, insecticides, herbicides, rodenticides, detergents, organometallic compounds, radioactive isotopes, and air pollutants.  Methods for safety evaluation, risk assessment and basis for current Canadian law and regulatory procedures are presented.  Case studies on environmental health issues are duscussed. !3!CHEM100
HHSC440!Special Topics in Health Sciences!The topics for this course vary, depending on student interest and faculty availability.  This course may be repeated for up to 6 credits total (with the permission of the instructor and program chair). !0,6!
HHSC451!Health Sciences Research Project!This course enables students, individually or in groups, to explore a particular health issue in depth by defining a problem, collecting, analyzing and interpreting secondary and primary data, and presenting results in written and oral formats. !3!HHSC351
HHSC471!Aboriginal Health and Chronic Disease!This course provides students an opportunity to examine critically the current health status of Aboriginal people, including the incidence of chronic illness and mental health issues. Students are introduced to traditional Aboriginal healing practices intended to address the current state of Aboriginal health. This course is designed to be delivered in collaboration with an Aboriginal/First Nations community partner. !3!
HHSC473!Health Promotion!This course examines health promotion theories, principles, and underlying philosophies. Students identify and critique health promotion issues and also gain experience in developing strategies to promote health and well-being at individual, group and community levels.!3!
HHSC490!Honours Thesis!In this course students pursue an independent research project. Credit for this course is based on designing and implementing a research methodology, analyzing data and presenting findings in a thesis format. This course is a total of 6 credit hours and is normally completed over the September and January semesters. !6!HHSC451
HHSC497!Senior Seminar!This course provides an integrative seminar on research design and methodologies for advanced students. Enrolment is restricted to fourth-year Bachelor of Health Sciences Honours students who have completed 90 credit hours. !3!HHSC451
HIST190!World History to 1550!This course explores the history of Asia, Africa, Europe and the Americas from human origins to 1550. Although the course is organized chronologically, it does not cover all or even most aspects of World History during this time period. Rather, it focuses on certain themes to consider the development of various civilizations. At the same time, students work on developing their skills as historians by reading, writing and discussing primary and secondary sources through a number of different historical lenses. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and tutorial components if applicable.!0,3!
HIST191!The West and the World Since 1550!This course examines the history of European society and its interactions with the civilizations and peoples of Asia, Africa, and the Americas from the mid-seventeenth century through the end of the twentieth. The global movement of people, ideas, and economic practices between these different regions receive particular attention, as do processes of imperialism and colonialism. Topics covered include the rise of Absolutism; the expansion of European empires; the American, French, and Russian Revolutions; the Industrial Revolution; the two World Wars; and the Cold War. Students are also introduced to the discipline of History and to the skills of document analysis, historical writing, and primary source research. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components if applicable.!0,3!
HIST205!Surveys in National History!This course examines the political, social, and economic history in one or more specified nations and periods under study.  The nation(s) under study vary according to the expertise of the instructor and may include Australian, Japanese, Chinese, or British national history.  With permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substanially different.!3!
HIST210!Canada before Confederation!Canada is still profoundly shaped by its history before 1867.  This course examines the political, social and economic development of Canada from earliest times.!3!
HIST211!Canada since Confederation!This course examines development of Canada since 1867, with emphasis on social movements, economic development, politics and political protest, and regionalism.!3!
HIST215!Global History of Indigenous People!Our understanding of Indigenous history in one location can be much improved if the topic is studied in broader context.  In this course, students study the history of Indigenous peoples in various places around the world.!3!
HIST221!The United States from Colonization to 1877!This course is an introduction to the formation of the United States from colony to nation, addressing themes of cultural, social, political and economic history and the relationships among Aboriginal, African and European peoples.!3!
HIST222!The United States since 1877!This course is an introduction to the formation of the United States after Reconstruction, addressing themes of cultural, social, political and economic history.!3!
HIST231!Medieval Europe!This course is an introduction to the cultural, spiritual, social and political life of Europe from the fifth to the fifteenth centuries.!3!
HIST232!Early Modern Europe!This survey course examines the political, economic, religious, and cultural life of Europe from 1500 -1789.!3!
HIST240!The Expansion of Europe!This course examines the expansion of Europe from the Renaissance to the French Revolution.  Themes to be explored include the growth of the early modern state, economic growth and technological innovation, military development and international conflict, and the relationship between religion and expansion.  The creation of European empires and settlements in the western hemisphere will be highlighted.!3!
HIST241!The Age of Empire: Europe and the World, 1789-1914!This survey course examines relations among Europe and Asia, Africa and the Americas from the French revolution to the First World War.!3!
HIST256!Introduction to Crime and History!This course introduces students to the historic context and debate over questions of crime, punishment, and reformation.  The specific emphasis depends on the instructor's expertise and the course may include examinations of police history, captial punishment, the creation of penitentiaries, or the modern phenomenon of serial murder.  With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!
HIST257!Public Law in Canada!Public law includes the areas of law regulating the internal operations of governments and state agencies, the interactions among orders or levels of government and the interactions between state and non-state actors. Subjects covered in this course include constitutional law, administrative law, human rights law and criminal law and procedures. !3!
HIST258!Private Law in Canada!Private law refers in general to the areas of law that regulate the interactions among non-state actors including citizens, corporations and non-state agencies. The course covers such areas as property law, torts, contracts, family law and commercial law in Canada. !3!
HIST280!Colonial Latin America!This course is an introduction to the history of Latin America from the fifteenth century to the early nineteenth century. Topics to be discussed include Amerindian politics and empires on the eve of contact with Europe; contact, conquest, and colonization; conversion and religious adaptation; colonial imperial administration; Latin American economy in the world system; cultural conflict, resistance, and hybridization among European, African, and Aboriginal peoples; and the gradual emergence of distinctly Latin American identities. !3!
HIST281!Republican Latin America!This course is an introduction to the history of modern Latin America from the Wars of Independence in the early nineteenth century to the present day. Topics discussed include the Wars of Independence; personalist rule and institutional instability in the first half of the nineteenth century; class, race, gender, and Latin American identity; neocolonialism and the reintegration of Latin America into the global economy; modernity and Latin American nationalism; socialist revolution and conservative dictatorship; and neoliberalism and its discontents at the end of the twentieth century. !3!
HIST290!The Contemporary World!This course explores the conflicting identities and aspirations of local, national, and international groups and communities in the 20th century world. The themes of social movements, ethnicity, nationalism, imperialism, internationalism, and decolonization are explored from a global perspective. !3!
HIST295!History of Law!This course examines the historical origins and development of the law and its subsequent evolution within the social, political, economic and legal contexts. !3!
HIST300!Historiography: The Nature of the Historical Discipline!Taken in the first semester of the third year of study, this course examines the nature of history as a discipline of study and how historians approach their craft.!3!HIST190,AND,HIST191
HIST301!The Canadian North!This course studies the history of the provincial and territorial Canadian North with emphasis on the pre-contact period, Native-white relations, and the impacts of government on the region.!3!HIST210,OR,HIST211
HIST302!The Prairie West!This course considers the history of the three prairie provinces from the coming of Europeans to the present with emphasis on Native peoples, the fur trade, the development of society and the economy, political protest and regional alienation. !3!HIST210,OR,HIST211
HIST303!British Columbia!This course examines the history of the province from the coming of the Europeans to the present, with emphasis on Native cultures, the fur trade, colonization, the development of institutions, society and the economy, as well as the growing sense of regional identity. !3!HIST210,OR,HIST211
HIST309!Women in Canada!This course explores the constructions of Canadian womanhood and experiences of Canadian women from early contact to the present.  Themes include First Nations women, women in colonial society, women and work, women and reform, women and the state, lesbian women, and feminism. !3!
HIST311!History of Feminism!This course surveys the history of those various political, social and cultural movements (suffragism, women's liberation, etc.) that have combined to create the phenomenon of feminism. Attention is also be devoted to the diverse theories, ideas and values that underpin contemporary feminism.!3!HIST270,OR,WMST270
HIST312!An Introduction to the History of Gender!This course explores issues of gender in historical context using a case study approach.!3!
HIST320!The Western United States!This class focuses on social relations in the US West from pre-contact times to the present and on the West's mythical place in US history. !3!HIST221,AND,HIST222
HIST325!Sex Changes: An Introduction to the History of Sexuality!This course examines the variability of sexuality, and its connection with larger historical processes, from ancient times to the present; while offering a broad perspective on the sexual past, the course emphasizes the West after 1800.!3!
HIST326!History Through Film!This course introduces students to the questions and issues arising from the use of historical settings, characters, and events in film.  The specfic emphasis depends on the instructor's expertise and the course may include examinations of history in film in varied settings or themes.  With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!
HIST331!Lectures in Military History!This course examines military history in one or more specified nations and/or periods. The topics under study vary according to the expertise of the instructor and may include: the origins and causes of war; the impact of new technologies on tactics and strategy; military and naval innovation and resistance to innovation; the changing relationship of offense and defense; the concept of mass war; and the relationship of military institutions to society. With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3,6!HIST180,OR,HIST181
HIST332!Lectures in Social History!This course examines the social history in relation to regional, national, or international contexts through time in one or more specified nations and/or periods. The topics under study vary according to the expertise of the instructor and may include major social changes, the social origins of major historical events, or the history of particular social movements. With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3,6!
HIST333!Lectures in Cultural History!This course examines cultural history in one or more specified nations and/or periods. The topics under study vary according to the expertise of the instructor and  may include surveys in cultural events such as the Renaissance or Modernism or examination of how events such as war, economic crisis, technological change, or changing notions of gender or race have shaped culture through time or within specific periods or regions.  With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3,6!HIST190
HIST334!Lectures in Legal History!Legal history studies the development of law and its interactions with state, society, and culture.  This course examines legal history in a variety of contexts and  historical periods.!3!
HIST340!Politics and Society in Twentieth Century China!This course examines Chinese political and social development through the 20th century with primary attention paid to the comparison of past and present in state building, economic development, and social change. !3!
HIST355!Russian Imperial History!This course explores the history of Imperial Russia from the eleventh century to the Russian Revolution of 1917. It focuses on Russia and its expansion, covering a range of themes including centre-periphery relations, Indigenous peoples, the peasantry, women, and revolution, with a particular focus on the north.!3!
HIST356!Soviet History!This course will explore the history of the Soviet Union from the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 to breakup.  Themes focus on the development of the Soviet Union, emphasizing Soviet power and its impact on peripheral areas. The roles of  Aboriginal peoples, nationalism, women, and culture are studied with particular focus on the north.!3!
HIST360!An Introduction to Environmental History!Environmental history examines changing relationships between humans and the environment, including how human societies have been shaped by the environment, how environments have influenced human societies, and how humans have thought about the environment.  This introduction to the field includes a global perspective but emphasizes North America, particularly Canada.!3!
HIST365!Medieval Spain!As an overview of Iberian history from the fifth to the early sixteenth centuries, this course emphasizes the interaaction of Christians, Muslims, and Jews, as well as the cultural and political distinctiveness of Castile and the Crown of Aragon during the medieval period.!3!
HIST380!Modern Mexico!This course examines the history of Mexico from Independence in 1821 to the present, with emphasis on state building, economic development, and cultural transformations. !3!HIST281
HIST390!Aboriginal People in Canada!Lectures and readings examine the history of Aboriginal people in Canada since the earliest times.!3!HIST210,OR,HIST211
HIST407!Topics in Local History/Methodology!This course examines the craft of history by focusing on the history of localities in northern British Columbia. Students are expected to conduct their own research using primary sources. With permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the materials are substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST421!Topics in Environmental History!This course explores aspects of environmental history in a variety of geographic settings in various historical periods; the precise content of the course varies from year to year depending on the expertise of the instructor. With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST440!Internship in History!This is an academic course delivered in relevant workplaces (museums, archives, etc.). Students are supervised in a manner that enables them to integrate their academic skils with practical application. This course may be repeated once for a total of six credits. !3,6!
HIST441!Internship in Legal Studies!This is an academic work study course delivered in relevant workplace settings where students experience the work environment in an assortment of law and legal services occupations. Permission of the Chair is required for registration.!3!HIST257,OR,POLS257,AND,HIST258,OR,POLS258
HIST453!Topics in the History of Gender!This course studies the gendered experience of men and women in various contexts. With permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST454!Topics in Women's History!This course examines the diversity of women's experience in various contexts. With permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST456!Topics in Cultural Encounters!Students examine cross-cultural relations in different parts of the world.  With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST458!Topics in Law, Order & Society!This course explores the historical interrelationships of law, authority, and social ordering in several geographic contexts. With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST490!Topics in Historiography!This course examines particular themes in the history of history as a discipline. Topics might include the study of a particular school of historical thought, different interpretations of a major historical event, noteworthy historical controversies or the work of a significant historian. With permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST492!Topics in Cultural History!This course examines various themes in the history of culture. Topics might include major developments in the history of culture such as the Renaissance or Modernism.  The ways in which major historical events such as the Reformation or the First World War have reshaped culture might be examined; or particular cultural movements (such as classicism of 1960s counter-culture) may be the focus of the course. With permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST493!Topics in Social History!This course examines various themes in social history. Topics might include major social changes such as the industrial revolution or Canadian urbanization.  The social origins of major historical events such as the Reformation or the Russian Revolution might be examined; or particular social movements (such as socialism or utopianism) may be the focus of the course. With permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST494!Topics in Aboriginal History!In seminars and intensive primary and secondary research, students examine particular aspects of aboriginal history in Canada. With permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST498!Topics in International History!Students examine particular aspects of international history as selected by the instructor.  With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximu of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST300
HIST499!Independent Study!Offered by special arrangement between student and instructor, this course enables students to read in depth in an area of history not normally covered in established courses.  With the permission of the Chair, this course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours if the material is substantially different.!3!HIST190,AND,HIST191,AND,HIST300
HIST500!Honours Historiography: Contemporary Theories & Methods!This course traces the development of modern historical thought.!3!HIST300
HIST501!Honours Directed Readings!A course of specialized readings developed in consultation with, and supervised by, a faculty member in the History Program. !3!
HIST505!Honours Thesis!The Honours Thesis consists of a specialized research project developed in consultation with, and supervised by, a faculty member in the History Program. Credit is based on the presentation of research results in a formal paper of 7,500 to 10,000 words, and defended in an oral examination (the examining committee to consist of the supervisor and a minimum of three additional History Faculty members). !0,6!HIST500,AND,HIST501
INTS101!Canada and the World!An examination of Canada's position within the global community, including key economic, political, social and environmental issues and relations with the United States, Pacific Basin, and Circumpolar North. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and tutorial components. !0,3!
INTS121!Beginning Japanese I!An introduction to conversational and written elements of the language using materials from everyday situations. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components with the same instructor. !0,3!
INTS122!Beginning Japanese II!Continuation of INTS 121(L)-3. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components with the same instructor. !0,3!INTS121
INTS131!Beginning Russian I!An introduction to conversational and written elements of the language using materials from everyday situations. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!
INTS132!Beginning Russian II!Continuation of INST 131(L)-3. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!INTS131
INTS141!Beginning Swedish I!An introduction to conversational and written elements of the language using materials from everyday situations. !3!
INTS142!Beginning Swedish II!Continuation of INTS 141(L)-3. !3!INTS141
INTS151!Beginning Int'l Language I!(International language not regularly offered at UNBC.) An introduction to conversational and written elements of the language using materials from everyday situations. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!
INTS152!Beginning Int'l Language II!Continuation of INTS 151(L)-3. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab separately. !0,3!INTS151
INTS160!Mandarin for Chinese Speakers!Designed to help speakers of other Chinese dialects (Cantonese, Hakka, Fujian and others) who have the ability to read and write Chinese language, to gain better listening comprehension and fluency in oral Mandarin Chinese and strengthen their language skills in Mandarin Chinese.  It will focus on Mandarin pronunciation, syntax and concepts of modern Chinese through reading and discussion. !3!
INTS161!Beginnning Chinese I!A beginning course in modern written Chinese and spoken Mandarin.  It is to lay the foundation for the study of Mandarin Chinese and to develop the four basic linguistic skills, namely listening, speaking, reading and writing, through the study of Hanyu Pinyin (a phonetic system using English characters), vocabulary, syntax and culture.  It is designed for non-native speakers. !3!
INTS162!Beginning Chinese II!A continuation of the comprehensive introduction to the basics of Mandarin in INTS 161-3.  The multiple approach of this course focuses on perfecting phonetic skills, improving conversation competence (speaking and listening skills) as well as learning more Chinese characters for reading and writing. !3!INTS161
INTS200!Contemporary Russia!An interdisciplinary survey of the former Soviet Union and its peoples, including an examination of major historical, social, economic, political and cultural features of the country. !3!
INTS202!Contemporary United States!An interdisciplinary survey of the country and its people, including an examination of the major historical, social, economic, political and cultural features of the nation. !3!
INTS203!Contemporary Japan!An interdisciplinary survey of the country and its people, including an examination of the major historical, social, economic, political and cultural features of the nation. !3!
INTS204!Contemporary China!An interdisciplinary survey of China and its peoples, including an examination of the major historical, social, economic, political and cultural features of the country. !3!
INTS205!Introduction to International Studies!A survey of ways to analyse international interactions between states, people and the environment. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and tutorial components. !0,3!
INTS206!Contemporary International Issues!An examination of issues and problems in contemporary international studies. !3!INTS205
INTS221!Intermediate Japanese I!The development of speaking, writing and reading abilities using modern texts. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!INTS122
INTS222!Intermediate Japanese II!Continuation of INTS 221(L)-3. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!INTS221
INTS231!Intermediate Russian I!The development of speaking, writing and reading abilities using modern texts. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!INTS132
INTS232!Intermediate Russian II!Continuation of INTS 231(L)-3. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!INTS231
INTS240!Contemporary Circumpolar North!This course is an introduction to the physical, biological and human environments of the Arctic and Subarctic regions, and their interactions and relations to the global system. The course also introduces northern cultures, economic development processes, political systems, and international cooperation. !3!
INTS241!Intermediate Swedish I!The development of speaking, writing and reading abilities using modern texts. !3!INTS142
INTS242!Intermediate Swedish II!Continuation of INTS 241(L)-3. !3!INTS241
INTS251!Intermediate International Language I!The development of speaking, writing and reading abilities using modern texts. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!INTS152
INTS252!Intermediate International Language II!Continuation of INTS 251(L)-3. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,3!INTS251
INTS261!Intermediate Chinese I!This intermediate course is a continuation of INTS 161-3 and INTS 162-3. It provides students with opportunity to strengthen the four basic linguistic skills of the language and to increase their competency in oral and written skills. Some simple Chinese proverbs and idiomatic expressions will be introduced. !3!INTS161,AND,INTS162
INTS262!Intermediate Chinese II!This intermediate course is a continutation of INTS 261-3. Students will continue to build proficiency in all four basic skills of the language, and are expected to be, by this level, knowledgeable and competent enough to work independently in acquiring new vocabulary and Chinese characters.  Short essay writing will be included.  A couple of Tang's poems and Song's verses will be introduced. !3!INTS+261
INTS300!International Organization!An investigation of the evolution, operation and significance of international organization and international organizations.  Examinations of the United Nations, other intergovernmental institutions and various non-governmental organizations are included. !3!INTS205
INTS301!International Law!A study of the nature and sources of international law and its application in the contemporary international community. !3!INTS205
INTS302!Canadian Foreign Policy!A survey of the institutions, actors, processes and issues that determine Canadian foreign policy, including a review of the relationship to domestic policies. !3!INTS205
INTS304!International Development!An examination of approaches to and problems of economic, social and political development.  Policy-making processes and the role of national and international development institutions are also explored. !3!INTS205
INTS306!Human Rights!An examination of human rights issues and problems within the global community.  Human rights questions as disputes in relations between states and societies are explored, as are efforts to establish international codes of conduct and observance. !3!INTS205
INTS307!Global Resources!An examination of the interaction between global economic and environmental resources. !3!
INTS308!Gender and International Studies!An investigation of the role of gender in international affairs. !3!INTS205
INTS309!Global Science and Technology!This course is an inquiry into the role of science and technology in an era of "globalization". The origins of science & technology and their "merger" in the late 1800s provide the foundation for an analysis of science and technology's relationship to present-day security, economic social, and environmental issues at the international level. !3!INTS205
INTS310!Origins and Evolution of International Studies!A review of the origins and theoretical development of contending approaches which inform International Studies. !3!INTS205
INTS321!Japanese Conversation and Composition I!This course is designed for students who have an intermediate Japanese language background.  It will focus on developing students' speaking and writing skills as well as reading and listening.  Students will practice assigned topics in conversation and writing each week.  Participation and skill levels will be evaluated each class session. !0,3!INTS222
INTS322!Japanese Conversation and Compostion II!This course is a continuation of INTS 321-3 Japanese Conversation and Composition I. !0,3!INTS321
INTS325!Russian Film and Society!This course examines films made in the USSR and in post- Soviet Russia as a reflection of a specific worldview. Special attention is paid to political, historical, sociological and cultural contexts. !3!
INTS335!Global Environmental Challenge: Sustainability!This course introduces social and natural science students to the monumental challenge of achieving global environmental sustainability. The roles of ethics, knowledge and social, political and economic action in this process are examined, focusing especially on science and public policy. A common, trans-disciplinary vocabulary and a problem-solving approach to sustainability are developed and applied to case studies of environmental problems on scales from local to global. !3!
INTS340!The Circumpolar North in Global Perspective!An examination of the North in global perspective and the importance of a comparative perspective.  The nature and development of conflicts within the region between and within native and non-native communities, between and within groups on issues such as development, and between nations over matters such as sovereignty and defence of Northern regions are surveyed, as are attempts to reduce conflicts and create a more integrated circumpolar society. !3!INTS205
INTS350!Pacific Relations!An investigation of the evolution of relations between the nations of the Asia-Pacific region, including the consideration of economic, political, social and cultural interactions. !3!INTS205
INTS371!Globalization!An examination of the concept of globalization as it relates to political, economic, social, cultural and environmental processes which challenge and redefine the international system. !3!INTS205
INTS377!Redefining Security!A review of the evolution of the notion of security from traditional definitions associated with the military and the state to a more recent definition of security which includes gender, economics, and the environment. !3!INTS205
INTS378!Intelligence and Security!A comparative analysis of the place of security and intelligence in international relations and within contemporary states.  The role of the four major elements of intelligence (collection, counterintelligence, analysis and estimates, and covert action) will be examined as will the oversight and control issues raised by these activities. !3!INTS205
INTS402!Pacific Affairs!A detailed study of contemporary issues in the relations between Asia-Pacific nations, including an assessment of regional and subregional institutions. !3!INTS205
INTS403!Canadian-American Relations!A review of the evolution of relations between Canada and the United States. !3!INTS205
INTS404!Canada and the Americas!An examination of issues and problems in Canada's relationship with the countries of North, Central and South America. !3!INTS205
INTS409!Theories of International Studies!A review of the development of international studies as a discipline and the emergence of contending theoretical approaches. !3!INTS310,AND,INTS205
INTS410!Environment and Development in the Circumpolar North!Examination of conservation and development issues and experiences in the northern circumpolar countries. !3!INTS340,AND,INTS205
INTS440!Internship!Internship !3,6!INTS205
INTS444!Russian Foreign Policy!An analysis of the sources of Russian foreign policy and the patterns of external relations, from the Tsarist period to the present. Credit not available for both INTS 444-3 and INTS 644-3. !3!INTS205
INTS460!Issues in Canadian Foreign Relations!A detailed examination of selected problems in Canada's foreign relations. !3!INTS205
INTS470!International Environmental Policy!This seminar considers international actions dealing with environmental problems such as climate change, ozone depletion, hazardous waste, POP's, war and the environment, fresh water quality, deforestation, biodiversity, and endangered species. Discussion focuses on the ways and the extent to which these problems can be met by international agreements, and governance arrangements, or what International Studies calls environmental "regimes". Two basic questions will be addressed: what factors facilitate the formation of international environmental regimes and can these regimes be effective while overcoming the "tragedy of the commons"? !3!INTS205
INTS480!Pacific Environment!This is a seminar focused on international environmental problems of the Pacific region and efforts to solve them, with  particular attention to the theory and practice of international environmental cooperation, as applied to the Pacific region. !3!INTS205
INTS498!Special Topics in International Studies!Detailed examination and analysis of a contemporary issue in international studies, including the exploration of future policy options. !3,6!INTS205
INTS499!Independent Study!Independent Studies !3,6!INTS205
INTS590!Honours Seminar!This seminar will cover major theories and developments in international affairs, and the application of key theories, such as realism, idealism, constructivism, interdependence and globalization, etc.  The precise content will vary from year to year depending on faculty and student interest.  An effort will be made to cover topics of relevance to the students' honour theses. !3!INTS409,AND,INTS591
INTS591!Honours Thesis!The honours thesis will comprise a major specialized research project normally analyzing the applicability of an important concept, theory, issue or development in international studies.  Each honours thesis will require approval of the honours advisor, and will have a supervisor and a second reader, and will be defended. !3!INTS409,AND,INTS590
INTX288!International Exchange Program!Undergraduate students register in this course when they have been accepted to participate in a formal international exchange program at one of UNBC's partner institutions. !1,1!
INTX488!International Exchange Program!Undergraduate students register in this course when they have been accepted to participate in a formal international exchange program at one of UNBC's partner institutions. !1,1!
MATH100!Calculus I!This course is an introduction to the calculus of one variable, primarily for majors and students in the sciences. Functions of one variable, inverses, limits and limit theorems, continuity, the difference quotient and derivatives, rules for differentiation, differentiability, the mean value theorem, the differential as a linear functional, definitions and derivatives of trigonometric functions, informal definitions of logarithmic and exponential functions and their derivatives, L'Hopital's rule, higher derivatives, maxima and minima, curve sketching, Newton's method, antiderivatives, definite integrals, the fundamental theorem of calculus, integrals of elementary functions, area between curves, applications of integration and integration by substitution are discussed.  All sections of this course are taught using Maple software. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components.!0,3!MATH115
MATH101!Calculus II!This course is a continuation of Math 100.  Areas of study include the definition of the natural logarithm as an integral and of the exponential function as its inverse, integration by parts, miscellaneous techniques of integration, improper integrals, volumes by slicing and by shell techniques, the trapezoidal rule and Simpson's rule, infinite sequences and series, Taylor series, masses, volumes, moments, centre of mass, first order linear differential equations, definition of partial derivatives.  All sections of this course are taught using Maple software. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components.!0,3!MATH100,OR,MATH105
MATH105!Enriched Calculus!A rigorous introduction to the calculus of functions of one variable. Core topics covered are similar to those of MATH 100-3, except that the focus is less on the mechanics of calculus and more on the development of the ideas in calculus and of calculus as a foundation of mathematical thought.  Additional special topics will be added by the instructor.  Maple labs will accompany this course. !3!MATH115
MATH115!Precalculus!This course examines algebraic manipulation, solutions of algebraic equations, functions, inverses, graphing, and analytic geometry. It is not open to students with credit in Principles of Math 12, Precalculus 12, MATH 100, MATH 105, MATH 150, MATH 152 or equivalents except by permission of the chair. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and tutorial components if applicable where a tutorial component is scheduled in the same term.!0,3!
MATH150!Finite Mathematics for Business and Economics!This course is offered primarily for students in the School of Business and the Economics Program. The course covers functions and graphs, linear systems of equations, matrix notation and properties, matrix inversion, linear programming, sets, counting and probability, and an introduction to actuarial mathematics.!3!MATH115
MATH152!Calculus for Non-majors!Limits, the derivative, techniques of differentiation, exponential functions and exponential growth, maxima and minima, curve sketching, first order linear differential equations, definite and indefinite integrals, partial derivatives, optimization of functions of several variables, Lagrange multipliers, with applications in the social and physical sciences.  Applications may vary somewhat from section to section, depending on student's discipline. Not open to mathematics or computer science majors. !3!MATH115
MATH190!Math for Elementary Educators!This course develops an understanding of mathematical concepts and relationships used in the elementary school curriculum.  The content focus is on numbers and number systems, patterns and relationships, shapes and space, and statistics and probability.  Problem solving and deductive reasoning are stressed throughout the course. Students who have taken MATH 100, MATH 105, MATH 152 or equivalent require permission of the Chair. !0,4!
MATH200!Calculus III!The final course in the calculus sequence, with an emphasis on the calculus of vector-valued functions of several variables. Vectors in two- and three-dimensional space, dot and cross products, lines and planes in space, cylindrical and spherical co-ordinates, curves given parametrically, surfaces and curves in space, directional derivatives, the gradient, tangent vectors and tangent planes, the chain rule the topology of Euclidean space, optimization problems for functions of several variables, vector fields, line integrals, surface integrals, the theorems of Green, Gauss, and Stokes, potential functions, conservative fields. !3!MATH101,OR,MATH102
MATH201!Introduction to Complex Analysis!Complex numbers and topology of the complex plane, theory of analytic functions, precise definition of a limit and continuity, harmonic functions, contour integration, Cauchy's integral theorem and integral formula, series representation for analytic functions, residue theory, the fundamental theorem of algebra, the residue theorem, contour integration, and applications. !3!MATH200
MATH220!Linear Algebra!This course covers systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, determinants, vector geometry, vector spaces, eigenvalues and diagonalization.!3!MATH100,OR,MATH105,OR,CPSC141
MATH224!Foundations of Modern Mathematics!This course develops the essential components of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory and from these ideas constructs the standard number osystems. Topics include basic logic and methods of proof, axioms of set theory, mathematical induction, the natural numbers, the integers, and the rational, real, and complex number systems, epsilon-delta arguments, and rigourous development of the theorems of elementary calculus.!3!MATH100,OR,MATH105
MATH230!Linear Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems!This course is an introduction to differential equations. Topics include: first order ordinary differential equations (separable, exact, and linear), basic Euler and Runge-Kutta numerical methods of solution, homogeneous and non-homogeneous linear second order equations with classical methods of solution (variation of parameters and reduction of order), linear partial differential equations with examples (heat equation, Laplace's equation, wave equation), Fourier sine and cosine series with an application to boundary value problems. !3!MATH200,AND,MATH220
MATH302!Introductory Mathematical Analysis!This course develops the essential components of metric space topology and the related ideas of convergence including convergence of sequences and series of functions. Topics include open, closed, bounded and compacted sets in a metric space, the Bozano-Weierstrass and Heine-Borel Theorems, continuous and uniformly continuous functions, and uniform convergence.!3!MATH101,AND,MATH224
MATH320!Survey of Algebra!A first course in the standard algebraic structures, their properties and applications.  Equivalence relations, elementary group theory, finite groups, cyclic groups, permutation groups, group homomorphisms, products, elementary ring theory, ring homomorphisms and products, construction of new algebraic structures from known structures. !3!MATH220
MATH326!Advanced Linear Algebra!Topics include abstract treatment of vector spaces, linear transformations, the Cayley-Hamilton theorem, inner product spaces, Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization, rational and Jordan canonical forms, and the spectral theorem.!3!MATH220
MATH335!Numerical Analysis I!An introduction to the theory and application of numerical approximation techniques. Topics to be examined include: number systems, error sources and analysis, solution of nonlinear equations, solution of systems of linear equations, interpolation and approximation, and numerical differentiation and integration. Programming exercises will be given, and there may be some use of commercial software. May be counted as a computer science course by computer science majors. !3!MATH101,AND,MATH220,AND,CPSC100
MATH336!Intermediate Differential Equations!This course is a continuation of MATH 230-3 and is designed to increase the depth and breadth of students' knowledge pertaining to differential equations. Topics include existence and uniqueness theory for ordinary differential equations, series solutions of differential equations, linear system theory, phase plane analysis and stability, boundary value problems review of Fourier Series with additional applications to boundary value problems for the Heat Equation, Way Equation and Laplace's Equation.!3!MATH230,AND,MATH220
MATH389!Special Topics In Mathematics!The topic of this course varies depending on student interest and faculty availability. !3!
MATH402!Topological and Normed Linear Spaces!This course focuses on the properties of topological spaces and normed linear spaces, especially Banach spaces. Topics include inner product spaces, topological spaces, compact and locally compact spaces, classical Banach spaces, linear functionals and dual spaces, topological vector spaces, and Hilbert space. ,!3!MATH302
MATH403!Measure Theory and Integration!This course focuses on the development and properties of Lebesgue measure and the Lebesgue integral, with generalization to integration in abstract measurable spaces. Topics include outer measure, measurable sets and Lebesgue measure, measurable functions, differentiation of integrals, and the extension of these concepts to more general settings. !3!MATH302
MATH405!Topology!This course considers open and closed sets, Hausdorff and other topologies, bases and sub-bases, continuous functions connectivity, product and quotient spaces, the Tychonoff and Urysohn lemmas, metrization, and compact spaces.!3!MATH302
MATH409!Mathematical Methods in Physics!This course surveys of the methods and techniques involved in the formulation and solutions of physics problems. Topics include matrix algebra and group theory, eigenvalue problems, differential equations, functions of a complex variable, Green's functions, Fourier series, integral equations, calculus of variations, and tensor analysis.!3!
MATH420!Structure of Groups and Rings!Advanced course in group theory and ring theory. Homomorphism theorems for groups, rings and R-modules, Sylow theorems, short exact sequences, chain conditions. !3!MATH320
MATH421!Field Theory!Topics discussed will include:  fields, field extensions, splitting fields, automorphism group, Galois Theory. !3!MATH320
MATH450!Combinatorics!This course is an introduction to Combinatorics. Topics include: counting principles, principle of inclusion and exclusion, generating functions, graph theory and applications, combinatorial structures, combinatorial optimization and applications. !3!MATH101,AND,MATH220
MATH455!Graphs and Algorithms!This course is an introduction to graphs and algorithms. Topics include: basic graph concepts, flows and connectivity, trees, matchings and factors, graph colouring, scheduling, planar graphs, and algorithms.!3!MATH224,OR,CPSC142,OR,CPSC141
MATH460!Mathematics Seminar!Topic will vary from year to year.  Offered in a seminar format with limited enrolment.  Students will complete a substantial project under the supervision of the instructor. !3!
MATH480!Number Theory!This course is an introduction to Number Theory. Topics include: the integers, divisibility, Euclidean algorithm, primes, unique factorization, congruences, systems of linear congruences, Euler-Fermat Theorem, multiplicative functions, quadratic residues and reciprocity, nonlinear Diophantine equations. !3!MATH220,OR,MATH224
MATH499!Special Topics in Mathematics!The topic for this course will vary, depending on student interest and faculty availability. !0,3!
MATH530!Undergraduate Thesis!This undergraduate thesis allows students to examine and research a topic in the field of mathematics. Students must have completed at least 90 credit hours and be a Mathematics major. This thesis may be taken in one or two semesters. MATH 530 is normally taken over two semesters and requires that a student find an Undergraduate Thesis research supervisor. Therefore, students are encouraged to apply to potential supervisors well in advance of completing 90 credit hours. This course is taken for a total of 6 credit hours.!3,6!
NOLS100!The Natural History of Regional Ecosystems!This course teaches students field natural history and basic field ecology as keys to the exploration of their surroundings and in order to minimize the human effects on the ecosystems through which they travel.  This is done through immersion in a wilderness setting, class work, and guided "teachable moments" that develop students' knowledge of local biota.!0,4!
NOLS300!Environmental Ethics, Leave No Trace and Leadership!This course allows students to master "Leave No Trace" principles and develop the teaching skills necessary to pass these ethics on to others effectively.  These goals are accomplished in an independent learning community immersed in a remote wilderness environment.!0,2!
NOLS301!Group Leadership Techniques!This course enables students to learn and practice advanced levels of outdoor leadership.  Areas of emphasis include high accountability standards, communications, group organization, teamwork, and expedition ethics.!0,2!
NOLS302!Wilderness Skills Practicum!This course teaches students safety and environmental care to develop competence in wilderness travel fundamentals.  Students learn the skills needed to travel through the backcountry safely, in a number of different contexts (e.g., canoeing, river travel, backpacking, mountaineering).!0,6!
NOLS303!Risk Management, Assessment and Decision Making!Students learn and practice assession and managing risks related to weather, climate, travel, and the "human factor." Foundations for decision-making, theory, and communication are practiced.  Risk assessment is evaluated on the environment in which the course is based (e.g., land, water or snow).!0,2!
NORS101!Introduction to the Circumpolar North!Introduction to the Circumpolar North. This course is an introduction to the physical, biological and human environments of the Arctic and Subarctic regions, and their interactions and relations to the global system. The course introduces northern environments, cultures, historical and economic development processes, political systems, and international cooperation. !3!
NORS311!Lands and Environments of the Circumpolar North 1!This course provides an in-depth understanding of the lands and environments that define the circumpolar north, and the key issues arising from the relationships of humans and the environment. !3!NORS101
NORS312!Lands and Environments of the Circumpolar North 2!This course provides an in-depth understanding of the lands and environments that define the circumpolar north, its physical, biological and ecological processes. !3!NORS101
NORS321!Peoples and Cultures of the Circumpolar World 1!This course provides an introduction to the traditional and contemporary peoples and cultures of the circumpolar north, with interdisciplinary exposure to anthropology, sociology, history, cultural studies, and literature. !3!NORS101
NORS322!Peoples and Cultures of the Circumpolar World 2!This is an interdisciplinary course looking at the relationships among primary, secondary, and tertiary societies in the circumpolar north, as well as cultural change, Indigenous peoples' movements and international/intercultural cooperation and communications. !3!NORS321
NORS331!Contemporary Issues of the Circumpolar North 1!This course is an introduction to the important structures and forces affecting the sustainability of circumpolar communities, including population trends, natural resource use and economic development. !3!NORS101
NORS332!Contemporary Issues of the Circumpolar North 2!This course deals with questions relating to governance and politics, social issues, education and knowledge systems, and global issues in the circumpolar north. !3!NORS101
NORS498!Special Topics in Northern Studies!A special topic in northern studies selected by an instructor. !3!NORS101
NORS499!Independent Research/Directed Reading in Northern Studies!Concentration on a particular topic agreed upon by a member of the faculty and a student. !3,6!NORS101
NREM100!Field Skills!This course introduces contemporary and traditional field skills in the natural resources including field navigation, outdoor survival, plant and tree identification, basic natural resource measurements, use of GPS, and air photo interpretation. Extensive fieldwork is required. Note: Applications for exemption from NREM 100-3 must be made within the first year of study in any program that requires NREM 100-3. !0,3!
NREM101!Introduction to Natural Resources Management and Conservation!This course introduces past, present and future issues in natural resources management and conservation.  Guest speakers share their professional experiences working in various fields of natural resources management.  Students learn to think critically about the multidisciplinary nature of resource management and they provide solutions to complex, real-world problems. !3!
NREM203!Resource Inventories and Measurements!This course introduces multiple resource inventories, designed to provide an understanding of how natural resources are sampled and quantified.  Emphasis is placed on the measurement of forest attributes, and the analysis of forest resource data.  Students learn how to make graphical and numerical summaries of their datasets and to generate descriptive statistics such as measures of central tendency and dispersion.  This foundational course prepares students for future courses and careers in natural resource management, by providing them with a set of basic field skills and techniques.  Field trips are required. !0,3!NREM100
NREM204!Introduction to Wildlife and Fisheries!Introduction to principles of habitat and population biology and management, and human dimensions of wildlife management. Lectures will introduce the life requisites of individual species and compare aquatic and terrestrial systems, and provide an overview of the characteristics needed to estimate parameters of fish and wildlife populations. Labs will emphasize quantification of fish and wildlife habitats. !0,3!BIOL102,AND,NREM100
NREM210!Integrated Resource Management!An introductory course in the principles of management of forest resources including fisheries, recreation, range, and wildlife. !0,4!
NREM303!First Nations' Approaches to Resource Management!Cultural and operational components of resource management by First Nations peoples.  Relationships to conventional forest management practices. !0,3!
NREM306!Society, Policy and Administration!This course addresses social views of natural resources and the management process by which these views and policies are developed and expressed.  Social conflict and its resolution over natural resource policies are also discussed. !3!
NREM333!Field Applications in Resource Management!This field-based course provides students with a practical understanding of principles of integrated resource management. The course focuses on the many values on a landbase through modularized lessons and an authentic case study approach. Meeting with various stakeholders and professionals working in the field!3!
NREM400!Natural Resources Planning!This course focuses on the development and application of planning frameworks, government policy, and legislation from the perspective of natural resources management in British Columbia and Canada. Students are exposed to contemporary approaches for natural resources planning, the history and current application of policy and legislation in BC, and a variety of tools for engaging the public and stakeholders. !0,4!
NREM410!Watershed Management!Principles and practices of forest management for protection, maintenance and improvement of water resource values.  Effects of land management on quality, quantity and timing of water flow. Field trips required. !3!GEOG210
NREM411!Environmental and Professional Ethics!Analysis of environmental and natural resource issues from an ethical perspective; viewpoints and value systems that determine management decisions. !3!
NREM413!Agroforestry!This course introduces students to agroforestry concepts, strategies and practices(systems). Discussions include ecological, economic, and social circumstances under which a landowner lives and makes decisions about whether or not to practice agroforestry. Both temperate and tropical approaches to agroforestry systems are addressed in the course. Special attention is given to agroforestry research and development in British Columbia. !3!
NREM499!Independent Studies!1,6!
NRES100!Communications in NRES!This course will provide a basic understanding of human behavioural responses as well as develop learning skills in oral and written communications. Emphasis will be on determining the nature of an audience, accessing appropriate material, report writing, oral presentation and literature relevant to natural resources and environmental disciplines. !3!
NRES421!Professional Writing!This course provides a structured environment in which students learn and apply professional report writing. Topics include development of a research question or problem statement, accessing and properly citing information and references, synthesis and organization of information, report structure and formatting. !1!
NRES422!Undergraduate Report!This course enables students to develop a professional report under the supervision of a faculty member. Students work independently, but are provided guidance on a one-on-one basis by the faculty member. The professional report requires definition of a problem statement or research question, and synthesis and integration of information from a multitude of sources. !2!NRES421
NRES430!Undergraduate Thesis!An undergraduate thesis offers students substantial research experience, which may be helpful for proceeding to postgraduate studies. The course requirements include conducting supervised research, writing a thesis, and presenting the results orally. Students taking this course would normally be majoring in Biology, Environmental Studies, Natural Resources Management (Forest Ecology and Management, Outdoor Recreation and Conservation, or Wildlife and Fisheries), or Nature-Based Tourism Management. NRES 430 is normally taken over two semesters and requires that a student find an Undergraduate Thesis research supervisor. Students are encouraged to apply to potential supervisors well in advance of completing 90 credit hours.!6!
NURS101!The Art and Science of Nursing!This course introduces the beginning student to the dimensions of nursing practice and to individuals accessing health care. Through group and individual learning activities the student is introduced to concepts, practices, issues and trends in nursing and health care. Observational experience with a health care practitioner is incorporated. !3!
NURS102!Communication Theory and Practice!This course introduces the student to communication theory and concepts. The student has the opportunity to increase awareness of self and to explore perceptions, culture, language and non-verbal messages. Opportunities exist for the development of communication skills. !3!
NURS201!Introduction to Health Assessment!This course provides the basis to gather a health history and to assess the functioning of individuals through the proper use of physical examination techniques. Psychosocial and cultural assessment is included. The emphasis is on recognition and identification of normal findings. !4!HHSC111,AND,HHSC112,AND,NURS101,AND,NURS102
NURS202!Pathophysiological Concepts!This course uses a conceptual approach to examine pathological mechanisms of altered states in human physiology. Topics include the etiology, cellular metabolism, tissue alterations, functional changes, and age-related differences involved in each process. !3!HHSC111,AND,HHSC112,AND,HHSC110
NURS203!Health Promotion in Families!This course introduces theory related to families across the lifespan within the context of primary health care in the north. Emphasis is on family assessment skills and working in partnership wiht families in the development of health promotion and illness and injury prevention strategies. Holistic care of families during transitions such as normal childbearing, child rearing, and caring for an elderly parent is included. !3!NURS101,AND,NURS102
NURS204!Healing Modalities!This course provides an overview of healing modalities currently used by nurses and other experts in practice in British Columbia. Principles of pharmacology  and pharmacodynamics are addressed. Opportunity is provided for students to explore various complementary healing techniques. !3!HHSC111,AND,HHSC112
NURS205!Introduction to First Nations Health!This course provides an overview of First Nations health, factors influencing health status, and issues arising from Northern and remote living. Historical events and their impact on health are introduced.  Current barriers to health, along with culturally sensitive nursing implications, are explored. !3!ANTH213
NURS206!Basic Nutrition!This course examines the nutritional needs of specific client groups throughout the lifespan and in various states of wellness and illness. The course reviews the physiology of carbohydrate, fat, protein, and energy metabolism. Topics include enteral and parenteral nutrition, trends and issues in nutritional practice, and the psychosocial and cultural aspects of food and eating behaviours. !3!
NURS215!Nursing Care of the Adult!This course examines principles and practices of nursing adults with health problems. The focus is on the acquisition and application of knowledge in planning, implementing and evaluating the nursing care of clients requiring medical and surgical intervention. Holistic health care of individuals is highlighted. The course includes laboratory instruction in psychomotor skills. The clinical practicum enables the student to integrate theory and skills needed to provide nursing care.!8!NURS101,AND,NURS102,AND,HHSC111,AND,HHSC112,AND,HHSC110,AND,NURS201,AND,NURS202
NURS220!Extended Clinical Practicum I!This practicum provides the opportunity for consolidated clinical nursing practice with adults who have health problems. This course builds on previous clinical practice with the adult and occurs in various settings in northern BC. !5!HHSC110,AND,HHSC111,AND,HHSC112,AND,NURS101,AND,NURS102,AND,NURS201,AND,NURS202,AND,NURS203,AND,NURS204,AND,NURS205,AND,NURS206,AND,NURS210,AND,NURS211
NURS301!Advanced Pathophysiology!Discusses the pathogenesis and pathophysiological mechanisms of select diseases and conditions, with an emphasis upon recent discoveries in genetics, immunology, and infection and includes conditions relevant to Northern B.C.  Linkages between pathophysiological events and therapeutic modalities are made.  This course presumes an understanding of anatomy, physiology, and basic pathophysiology. !3!
NURS303!Nutrition!This course review nutrient requirements across the life span and physiological connections of diet to health and disease. Therapeutic aspects of parenteral nutrition (total and peripheral) and special diets in disease states are covered. !3!
NURS304!Introduction to the Development of Nursing Knowledge!This course provides an overview of the types of knowledge or theory in the profession, and how such knowledge is developed. It encourages a critical analysis of trends in knowledge development and highlights the crucial relationship of knowledge to practice. !3!NURS220
NURS306!Introduction to Epidemiology!This course applies epidemiological principles in the examination of patterns of disease and disability among populations, particularly those in northern latitudes.  It introduces students to the interpretation of vital statistics, the critique of cross-sectional, case-control and cohort design, and the principles of screening. Note: This course is cross-listed with HHSC 350-3. !3!NURS220
NURS308!Ethics and Law in Nursing!This course examines ethical reasoning and the use of ethical theory in nursing practice decisions.  Health care law as it relates to nursing practice is explored. Special focus is on the meaning and use of nursing practice acts, professional standards of practice and nursing codes of ethics. !3!NURS220
NURS317!Nursing Theory and Practice: Maternity!This course takes a women- and family-centred, strengths-based approach to caring for individuals and families of diverse and multicultural backgrounds in the childbearing experience. Emphasis is placed on the integration and application of evidence-based theory, standards for nursing practice, effective communication, critical thinking and use of the nursing process to optimally prepare nurses as caregivers and collaborators with childbearing women, neonates, families, and the health care team.!0,5!NURS220
NURS318!Nursing Theory and Practice: Pediatrics!This course emphasizes the health of infants, children, and their families, with a focus on health promotion, risk reduction, disease prevention and common health problems. Particular attention is on northern populations and First Nations groups. Information and clinical practice relating to acute and chronic conditions and medical/surgical interventions are included. The impacts of illness, disability and medical/surgical care on the child and family unit are explored. Concepts of health promotion, effects of genetics and environment on child health and the influence of social determinants of health are introduced. Clinical experiences occur in acute pediatric and selected community settings, providing opportunities to apply pediatric nursing knowledge.!0,5!NURS220
NURS323!Nursing Theory and Practice: Older Adult!This course focuses on health-promoting, person-centred nursing practice with older persons in rural communities. Assessment focuses on the physical and mental health of older persons within the context of their everyday experience and their families and/or cultures. Particular attention is paid to the strengths of the individual as well as the presenting health challenges. Students explore strategies to prevent and/or address common health issues experienced by older persons. In addition, students have an opportunity to extend knowledge, skills and the application of therapeutic approaches with this population in the community and clinical settings.!0,5!NURS220
NURS326!Nursing Theory and Practice: Mental Health!This course provides knowledge and skills required to care for people living with common mental health and addiction issues encountered in rural nursing practice. A holistic relational nursing focus allows students to apply concepts to a variety of health challenges and to intervene appropriately. Nursing approaches to clinical decision-making with clients who have specific mental health problems such as psychotic, mood, anxiety and personality disorders are highlighted. Nursing practice approaches to addictions, substance use, and crisis intervention, including aggression and suicide attempts, are addressed. Students have opportunity to further develop mental health nursing knowledge and skills in the clinical setting.!0,5!NURS220
NURS329!Third-Year Objective Structured Clinical Examination!This course requires students to successfully complete a number of Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) scenerios as a prerequisite to commencing NURS 330-4 Extended Clinical Practicum II.  An OSCE is a method of evaluation used to measure whether specific practice performance expectations are met, and to evaluate students' clinical judgement and integration of theory and practice in standardized situations of simulated patient care.  Thirty-six hours of structured nursing laboratory practice must be successfully completed no more than eight months before the student undertakes the OSCE.  Lab hours must be approved by a lab instructor.!1!NURS304,AND,NURS306,AND,NURS308,AND,NURS312,AND,NURS315,OR,NURS326,AND,NURS313,AND,NURS316,OR,NURS323,AND,NURS317,AND,NURS318
NURS330!Extended Clinical Practicum II!This course provides the opportunity for consolidated clinical nursing practice with clients who have multiple health care needs. Previous clinical practice experience is considered when determining placement. The practicum occurs in various health care settings in northern BC.  Thirty-six hours of structured nursing laboratory practice and NURS 329-1 must be successfully completed no more than eight months before the student undertakes NURS 330-4.  Lab hours must be approved by a lab instructor.!4!NURS329
NURS402!Health Promotion!This course examines health promotion theories, principles, and underlying philosophies within a primary health care framework.  Students identify and critique health promotion issues and explore strategies which promote well-being among individuals, groups, and communities. !3!
NURS403!Introduction to Nursing Research!This course covers the empirical approach to the development of nursing knowledge and reviews aspects of quantitative and qualitative methods. !3!NURS304,AND,MATH240,OR,ECON205,OR,MATH242,OR,STAT240
NURS408!Nursing Leadership!This course discusses nursing as a profession within the health care delivery system. Theory regarding organizational structure, leadership, change, power, accountability and decision-making processes is included and is related to a specific clinical setting. !3!NURS330
NURS409!Pharmacotherapeutics for Nurses!Examines the clinical application of drug therapy, with an emphasis on drugs commonly used in primary care settings. Implications of selected pharmacotherapeutics for patients and professional nurses are analysed.  Emphasis is on clinical decision making for nurses working in rural or northern settings. !3!
NURS411!Medical Diagnostics for Nurses!This course considers information, interpretation and implications of commonly ordered diagnostic tests.  Aspects of specimen collection and test performance are covered.  Areas of study include serum chemistry, hematology, microbiology, radiological imaging, and electrography.  Emphasis is upon problem-solving and decision-making for nurses in acute care settings and in remote and rural areas.!3!
NURS412!Women and Health!This course examines health issues of northern women within a holistic perspective.  Students will explore general and specific health concerns of women using research literature, including epidemiology.!3!
NURS415!Introduction to Community Health and Nursing!This course provides an introduction to the concept of community and nursing in the community and builds upon previous experiences in community health nursing practice. Nursing theory and practice of working with individuals, families, and population groups in health and in illness are addressed. The trend to more community care in British Columbia is explored. !3!NURS304,AND,NURS306
NURS418!Introduction to Community Health and Nursing!This course provides an introduction to the concepts of community, primary health care, and nursing in the community and builds upon previous experiences in community health nursing practice. The theory and practice of working as a nurse in the community with individuals, families, and population groups are addressed through the integration and application of community nursing and primary health care theory in nursing practice in northern communities.!0,7!NURS330
NURS420!Community Health Nursing!This course provides the opportunity for students to increase their understanding of the theories, roles and practices required for community health nursing in changing primary health care systems in northern and rural settings. Emphasis is placed on a population-focused approach to nursing care, including the promotion of health and prevention of disease and disability. During an extended clinical practicum, students integrate theoretical understandings and evidence into contributing to services and programs in the community. Emphasis is on the nurse as a partner with the community. The NCBNP requires the 8 credit hour course, and Post-Diploma BScN students complete the 6 credit hour course.!0,8!NURS418
NURS422!First Nations Health and Nursing!This course provides the opportunity for students to increase their understanding of the theories, roles and practices required by nurses in First Nations communities. Included are the theoretical and practical exploration of the impact of colonization on health, effects of rapid cultural changes, nursing management of specific health issues, culturally sensitive approaches to nursing care, the health transfer process, and special topics related to health. During an extended clinical practicum, students integrate theoretical understandings and evidence into contributing to services and programs in First Nations communities, or in agencies that primarily serve First Nations clients. The NCBNP requires the 8 credit hour course, and Post-Diploma BScN students complete the 6 credit hour course.!0,8!NURS418
NURS426!Acute Care Nursing!This course examines the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to provide holistic, person-centred care in the acute setting. This course explores the concepts and practices of acute care nursing with various client populations while enabling students to consolidate and extend their knowledge and clinical ability in the acute care setting. Problem solving, complex client situations and expanding the professional role of the nurse are central themes of the course. The NCBNP requires the 8 credit hour course, and Post- Diploma BScN students complete the 6 credit hour course.!0,8!NURS330,OR,NURS320
NURS428!Nursing Management!This course examines nursing management and leadership theory, current issues and practice in hospitals, health care agencies and communities. Special focus is on front-line nursing management within rural and northern communities in a changing health care system.  This course permits the extension of skills and knowledge in the practice of nursing leadership and management.!6!NURS304,AND,NURS306
NURS430!Community Continuing Care Nursing!This course explores the role, responsibilities and practices of nursing with a broad range of clients in home settings or long-term care facilities. A multidisciplinary team approach is emphasized. This course enables students to apply concepts and acquire skills of community continuing care professional nursing practice. Students provide direct care in the home setting, develop their clinical judgment, and contribute to decision-making and referral.!6!NURS304,AND,NURS306
NURS432!Mental Health Nursing!This course provides the opportunity for students to increase understandings of mental health and mental illness and to integrate and apply relevant theoretical and clinical knowledge. Northern practice, cultural contexts, concepts of client, and treatment settings are examined using mental health nursing frameworks. Utilizing both classroom seminars and clinical practice, students apply theoretical  understandings and evidence to practice, considering various clinical settings. The NCBNP requires the 8 credit hour course, and Post-Diploma BScN students  complete the 6 credit hour course.!0,8!NURS330
NURS435!Pediatric Nursing!This course examines the theory and practice of pediatric nursing in depth, with particular attention to northern nursing practice. Ethical and cultural issues are explored and the impact of social determinants of health on child health and development are addressed. The concept of primary care is introduced. The NCBNP requires the 8 credit hour course, and Post-Diploma BScN students complete the 6 credit hour course.!6,8!NURS330
NURS451!Health Assessment and RN First Call!This course provides students with the knowledge and skills needed to extend their ability to conduct a thorough health assessment for diverse client populations throughout the lifespan.  It prepares students to safely utilize the CRNBC Decision Support Tools for RN First Call practice. Students conduct age-appropriate comprehensive health histories and physical examinations, identify health concerns and risks, taking into account culture, ethnicity and health beliefs, and make informed clinical judgments. This course features one or more mandatory extended skills-building laboratory/workshop sessions that include evaluation of history and physical assessment skills as well as utilization of the RN First Call Decision Support Tools. Upon successful completion students may apply for CRNBC RN First Call Practice Certification.!3!
NURS452!Chronic Disease Management, Palliative Care and Wound Care!This course has three components. The Chronic Disease Management component utilizes current, evidence-based knowledge, skills adn management tools to provide effective client-centred care for those with chronic health challenges in rural practice. The Palliative Care component enables learners to extend their knowledge surrounding palliative care guidelines and discusses grief and bereavement issues. The Wound Care component examines evidence-based and cost-effective wound care for people residing in rural settings.!6!NURS330,OR,NURS320
NURS453!Nursing Practice with Older Persons!This course focuses on health-promoting, person-centred practice for nurses working with older persons in rural communities. Assessment focuses on the physical and mental health of older persons within the context of their everyday experience and their famlies and/or cultures. Particular attention is paid to the strengths of the individual as well as the presenting health challenges. Nurses explore strategies to prevent and/or address common health issues experienced by older persons.!3!
NURS454!Perinatal Care!This course spans the antenatal, intrapartum and post-partum continuum focusing on the perinatal skills and competencies required for nurses to support women and their families through low-risk, normal pregnancies. Students learn to recognize and take action in abnormal situations and make sound, informed clinical judgments in emergency situations in rural settings. This course involves a workshop and practicum, which are both mandatory. Prior to the practicum, RNCP and Post-Diploma students must provide proof of certification in the Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP) and the Fetal Health Surveillance course (FHS). The NCBNP requires the 8 credit hour course. RNCP and Post- Diploma BScN students complete the 6 credit hour course.!0,8!NURS330
NURS455!Critical Care, Emergency and Trauma!This course provides students with the practical evidence-based information, skills and tools necessary to identify clients with critical conditions and to intervene appropriately and effectively within the context and confines of rural nursing practice. The most salient aspects of adult, geriatric and pediatric emergency and critical care encountered in rural practice are examined. The course includes a focused lab experience and a practicum, which are both mandatory. The NCBNP requires the 8 credit hour course. RNCP and Post-Diploma BScN students complete the 6 credit hour course.!0,8!NURS330
NURS456!Mental Health and Addictions!This course provides knowledge and skills required to care for people living with common mental health and addiction issues encountered in rural nursing practice. A holistic relational nursing focus allows students to apply concepts to a variety of health challenges and to intervene appropriately. Nursing approaches to clinical decision making with clients who have specific mental health problems such as psychotic, mood, anxiety and personality disorders are highlighted. Nursing practice approaches to addictions, substance use, and crisis intervention, including aggression and suicide attempts are addressed.!3!
NURS457!Living and Working in a Rural Community!This course enables students to gain an understanding and appreciation of the unique challenges facing nurses who live and work in rural communities.  Confidentiality, anonymity, cultural safety, inter-professional relationships, population health, and maintaining competence are addressed.  Students gain greater knowledge and sensitivity in the provision of ethical and effective health care for First Nations populations.!3!NURS330
NURS458!Remote Nursing Certified Practice!This course focuses on Remote Nursing Certified Practice competencies. Key content areas include history and physical assessment, advanced clinical reasoning, informed judgment and pharmacotherapeutics for the management of specified common and predictable health conditions. Dispensary management and medication dispensing functions are also included. Content and course evaluation are based on a body-systems approach and incorporate the CRNBC Decision Support Tools for Remote Nursing Certified Practice. A mandatory extended workshop focusing on nursing practice in remote communities is included. Upon successful completion students apply for CRNBC Remote Nursing Practice Certification.!6!
NURS461!Rural Health and Nursing!This course prepares students with a focus in rural health and nursing. It provides students with the knowledge and skills to extend their ability to conduct a thorough health assessment for diverse client populations throughout the lifespan. It prepares students to safely utilize the CRNBC Decision Support Tools for RN First Call practice. Students conduct age-appropriate comprehensive health histories and physical examinations, identify health concerns and risks, taking into account culture, ethnicity and health beliefs, and make informed clinical judgments. This course features one or more extended skills-building laboratory/workshop sessions that include evaluation of history and physical assessment skills as well as utilization of the RN First Call Decision Support Tools. Through clinical practicum experiences in rural acute care and primary health care facilities, students integrate and apply knowledge and skills in rural nursing. Upon successful completion students may apply for CRNBC RN First Call Practice Certification.!0,8!NURS330
NURS497!Specialty Focus in Nursing!This course comprises both theory and clinical practicum experience in a particular specialty area of nursing practice. The specialty area varies depending on the students interests and the opportunities for specialty education available.!0,8!NURS330
NURS498!Special Topics in Nursing!This course explores a special topic in nursing. The topic varies, depending on student interest and faculty availability. No more than 6 credit hours in Special Topics courses may be applied towards a BScN degree.!1,6!
NURS499!Independent Study in Nursing!This course explores a selected topic in nursing based on readings and learning experiences directed by an instructor. The course format and requirements are based on a formal contract with the instructor. No more than six credit hours in Independent Study courses may be applied towards a BScN degree. !1,6!
ORTM100!Foundations of Outdoor Recreation and Tourism!This course introduces the foundations of Recreation and Tourism from the perspective of both the natural and social science.  Content includes the history and philosophy of the concept of leisure, the role of leisure, recreation and tourism in students' lives and Western culture, Recreation and Tourism in integrated resource management, and current delivery systems. !3!
ORTM200!Sustainable Recreation and Tourism!This course focuses on policy and planning for recreation and tourism as part of a sustainable management strategy.  The course examines the management of the supply side aspects of sustainable management from agriculture to forestry to understand how to plan and manage for recreation and tourism.  A broad array of sustainable recreation and tourism policies and planning tools in different political, geographical and economic contexts is reviewed, including the relationship of recreation and tourism to integrated land use planning and design. !3!
ORTM202!Ecotourism and Adventure Tourism!This course provides students with an understanding of ecotourism and adventure tourism along with other related types of tourism (e.g., nature-based, alternative, green tourism).  The course covers the history and origins of ecotourism and adventure tourism; definitional debates surrounding the terms; principles of ecotourism; the applications of ecotourism and adventure tourism in Northern BC, Canada and the world; and planning and management aspects of ecotourism and adventure tourism. !3!
ORTM205!Outdoor Skills and Leadership!This course focuses on the development of outdoor skills and leadership used in providing travel and recreation experiences in natural settings.  Students develop skills in planning and managing outdoor actvities.  Typical topics include communcation, risk management, group dynamics, coaching, leadership styles, and environmental ethics. Students are expected to come with basic personal equipment and outdoor clothing suitable to the season.!0,3!
ORTM298!Special Topics!This is a special topics course offered to lower division students. The course may not be offered every year, and may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours. !1,6!
ORTM300!Rec & Tourism Impacts!This course reviews the identification, monitoring and mitigation of ecological, economic and socio-cultural impacts of  recreation and tourism activities. Through labs, fieldwork and analysis of the literature, students examine the origin and management of impacts of recreation and tourism. !0,3!BIOL110,OR,BIOL201
ORTM305!Protected Area Planning and Management!This course examines historical, social, cultural, and ecological considerations in the establishment, planning and management of protected areas.  The focus of the course is generally on Canadian parks, though international examples are also included.  Emphasis is placed on the historic and contemporary cultural roles of protected areas, understanding park legislation and policies, natural resource management issues, and current issues and trends facing contemporary protected areas. !3!RRT2XX,OR,ORTM2XX,OR,RRT200,OR,ORTM200,OR,RRT202,OR,ORTM202,OR,RRT204,OR,ORTM204
ORTM306!Indigenous Tourism and Recreation!This course focuses on issues relating to indigenous perspectives on tourism and recreation, including indigenous tourism, cultural tourism and recreation, co-management of protected areas and conservation and tourism development opportunities in indigenous territories.  Examples from Northern British Columbia and other parts of the world are used. !3!RRT2XX,OR,ORTM2XX,OR,RRT200,OR,ORTM200,OR,RRT202,OR,ORTM202,OR,RRT204,OR,ORTM204,OR,FNST100
ORTM310!Research Methods and Analysis!This course examines contemporary research approaches and methods using a variety of examples from the natural and social sciences focusing on outdoor recreation and tourism. Topics include the research process and quantitative and qualitative approaches to research.  The class incorporates an applied project or projects for which data will be collected and analyszed in a mix of lab and lecture formats.!3!ECON205,OR,STAT240,OR,MATH240
ORTM332!Outdoor, Environmental, and Experiential Education!This course explores the historical, theoretical, and practical foundations of outdoor, envrionmental, and experiential education. It focuses on conventional and innovative applications and models of these techniques and philosophies for personal, social, and environmental learning.!0,3!
ORTM333!Field School!This is an experiential course designed to enable ORTM students to focus on theoretical and practical skills involved in the field.  Each field experience is designed to incorporate the theories, models and other concepts introduced in the classroom and bing them into greater clarity by examining them in a real world setting.  The course integrates outdoor recreation and tourism perspectives.  This field course applies principles of integrated resource management.  This course may be repeated with the permission of the instructor if the subject matter and course location differ substantially. !3!RRT3XX,OR,ORTM3XX,OR,RRT300,OR,ORTM300,OR,RRT301,OR,ORTM301,OR,RRT305,OR,ORTM305,OR,RRT306,OR,ORTM306
ORTM400!Conservation Area Design and Management!This course focuses on the theories, processes and techniques involved in ecological management and design of conservation and protected areas. Students develop skills in community-based involvement in conservation area design, GIS approaches and techniques for analysis, the concept of naturalness, capacity and suitability of the natural resource base for tourism and recreation. Policies, procedures and practices to protect and manage  recreation and tourism resources within an integrated management context are discussed. . . !3!BIOL110,OR,BIOL201
ORTM403!International Dimensions of Recreation and Tourism!The course discusses global dimensions and forces in recreation and tourism, particularly those in developing nations.  Typical topics include the role of the United Nations in protected area planning and management, poverty and protected areas, the effects of globalization on ORTM, the impact of the concepts of sustainable development, and biodiversity in ORTM, the risk society, the changing role of local communities in conservation, sex tourism, and enforcement issues in the developing world. !3!RRT300,OR,ORTM300,OR,RRT301,OR,ORTM301,OR,RRT305,OR,ORTM305,OR,RRT306,OR,ORTM306,OR,RRT333,OR,ORTM333,OR,RRT3XX,OR,ORTM3XX
ORTM407!Recreation, Tourism and Communities!This course assesses the relationship between tourism and recreation and local communities as well as collaborative techniques for involving communities in tourism consultation processes.  It covers topics such as the concepts of communities and stakeholders, hosts and guests, the relationship between community involvement and tourism, community attitudes towards tourism development and emerging approaches towards collaboration and partnerships. !3!ORTM3XX,OR,ORTM300,OR,ORTM301,OR,ORTM305,OR,ORTM306,OR,ORTM332,OR,ORTM333,OR,ENPL2XX,OR,ENPL204,OR,ENPL205,OR,ENPL206,OR,ENPL207,OR,ENPL208
ORTM408!The Psychology of Recreation and Tourism!Examines individual and social factors that shape personal perception, experience and behaviours in a recreation and tourism setting. !3!
ORTM409!Critical Approaches to Outdoor Recreation Activities!This seminar course critically questions and creatively reconsiders the nature of outdoor recreation activities as related to contemporary, and interrelated, social and environmental issues.  The course is firmly grounded in recreation and leisure studies literature offering anthropological, critical, historical, and socio-ecological interpretations of particular activities (e.g., canoeing, rock climbing, mountaineering), and involving concepts such as identity, place, skill, and community. The course may involve practical experiences and field trips to inform academic content, but these are not the focus.!3!ORTM100,AND,ORTM300,OR,ORTM301,OR,ORTM305,OR,ORTM306,OR,ORTM332,OR,ORTM333
ORTM412!Issues and Trends in Recreation and Tourism!This seminar examines current issues and problems in recreation and tourism, and explores philosophical, historical and contemporary trends and issues in recreation, parks and tourism.  The future outlook for management, administration and utilization of recreation and tourism resources in BC will be examined. !3!
ORTM414!Polar Tourism and Recreation!This course focuses on the unique aspects of tourism and recreation in the Polar Regions.  Topics covered include issues of shared management, sovereignty, science vs. tourism, adventure and expeditionary tourism and recreation, the logistical challenges of operating in such remote environments, and the impacts tourism and recreation have in the Polar Regions. !3!
ORTM433!Field School II!This senior-level experiential course provides a combination of theoretical and practical skills in the field. The course integrates outdoor recreation and nature-based tourism perspectives, and is based in various locations in BC, and worldwide.  ORTM 433 may be offered in conjunction with ORTM 333; in some years enrolment may be required in both. !1,6!RRT3XX,OR,ORTM3XX,OR,RRT300,OR,ORTM300,OR,RRT301,OR,ORTM301,OR,RRT305,OR,ORTM305,OR,RRT306,OR,ORTM306,OR,ORTM333
ORTM440!Internship!May be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !2,6!
ORTM498!Special Topics!May be repeated for credit (maximum three credits). !1,3!
ORTM499!Independent Study!May be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !1,6!
PHIL200!Critical Thinking!This course introduces students to informal logic and critical thinking.  Students will learn to identify standard errors in reasoning and apply these skills to contemporary readings and other forms of media representation. !3!
PHIL201!Philosophy of Science!A service course intended to introduce students to the conceptual/logical foundations of sciences.  Topics include the nature of logic, scientific explanation, law, theories, use of probability and statistics, role of ethics and politics in science. !3!
PHIL202!Comparative Religion!An introductory course exploring issues related to the religious traditions of the world, e.g. Native spirituality, Hinduism, Judaism, Buddhism, Christianity, Shintoism, Islam, Paganism and Atheism.  Basic questions to be considered include the existence of God, freedom and immortality, nature of spirituality, religious experience and religious language in people's life and world view. !3!
PHIL205!Introduction to the History of Philosophy!This course is an introductory survey of Western philosophy from the ancient Greeks to the late medieval period, including such thinkers as Pythagoras, Parmenides, Plato, Aristotle, Augustine and Aquinas. The course provides an overview of philosophical topics including ontology, epistemology and ethics.!3!
PHIL210!Philosophy of Mind!This course provides an introduction to fundamental issues in the philosophy of mind including the nature of the mind, the relationship between the mind and the body, and the nature of our thoughts and perceptions. Also included is an introduction to the works of some of the leading philosophers in the field.!3!
PHIL305!History of Philosophy: Early Modernity to Post-Modernity!This course traces the history of Western philosophy from early modernity to the early twentieth century. Thinkers discussed may include Aquinas, Ockham, Descartes, Hobbes, Locke, Hume, Kant, Schopenhauer, Rousseau, Fichte, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche and Heidegger.!3!PHIL205
PHIL325!Moral Philosophy!This course is a survey of historical and contemporary western moral philosophy. Topics include philosophical ideas such as Platonism, virtue ethics, voluntarism, naturalism, Kantianism, social contract theory and consequentialism.!3!
PHOT101!Digital Photo Essentials!This course introduces the basics of photography as an art form in an online environment. Through technical and conceptual assignments, workshops, critiques, research, discussions and lessons, students will be introduced to the critical, historical and theoretical language necessary to discuss and formulate ideas within photography. They will learn to use both analogue and digital photographic equipment, materials and processes, and will apply those technical skills to the production of photo-based artwork. Students will develop their visual, technical and critical skills, and will learn to discuss and critique their own and others' work. !3!
PHYS100!Introduction to Physics I!First part of an algebra-based introductory physics course for majors in life and environmental sciences: physics and measurement, the laws of motion, applications of Newton's second law, work and energy, linear momentum and collisions, static equilbrium, elasticity, law of universal gravitation, laws of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, sound waves. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,4!PHYS115
PHYS101!Introduction to Physics II!Second part of an algebra-based introductory physics course for majors in life sciences.  Covers: electric charge, electric field, electric potential, DC circuits, magnetic field, sources of magnetic fields, magnetic induction, electromagnetic waves, geometrical optics, elements of modern physics. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,4!PHYS100,OR,PHYS110
PHYS110!Introductory Physics I: Mechanics!First part of the calculus-based introductory physics course for majors in physical and mathematical sciences. Covers: Vectors, measurement, motion in one and two dimensions, the laws of motion, application of Newton's laws, work and energy, potential energy, conservation of energy, linear momentum and collisions, rotation of rigid bodies, rolling motion, angular momentum, static equilibrium, elasticity, law of universal gravitation, elements of thermodynamics. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,4!,OR,PHYS115,OR,MATH115,AND,MATH100,OR,MATH105
PHYS111!Introductory Physics II: Waves and Electricity!Second part of the calculus-based introductory physics course for majors in physical and mathematical sciences, including oscillatory motion, wave motion, sound waves, superposition and standing waves, electric field, Gauss's law, electric potential, capacitance and dielectrics, current and resistance, DC circuits, magnetic fields, sources of magnetic fields. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,4!PHYS110,OR,PHYS100,AND,MATH101
PHYS115!General Introduction to Physics!This is an Algebra-based introductory physics course for students without Grade 12 Physics. Topics covered include physics and measurement, the laws of motion, work and energy. linear momentum and collisions, static equilibrium, elasticity, laws of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, sound waves, electric field, electric potential, DC circuits, magnetic field, electromagnetic waves, laws of geometrical optics, and elements of modern physics. Students with credit in Physics 12 require permission of the Program Chair.!0,4!
PHYS120!Introduction to Astronomy I: The Solar System!A one-semester introductory course in Astronomy mainly for science students, but of general enough nature to accommodate non-science majors with proper background in math. This course is a complementary course to PHYS 121-3.  After a brief introduction to fundamentals of astronomy, including the sky at night, this course focuses on our solar system. Topics will include the following: an overview of our solar system; the Sun; Earth and Moon; the inner planets; Mercury, Venus, Mars; the gas giants; Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune; moons and ring structure of the gas giants; Pluto and Charon; asteroids, comets, meteors, and meteorites; the origin and evolution of our solar system; origin and evolution of the sun.  This course is a self-contained course. !3!
PHYS121!Introduction to Astronomy II: The Universe!A one-semester introductory course in astronomy mainly for science students, but of general enough nature to accommodate non-science majors with proper background in math. This course is a complementary course to PHYS 120.  After a brief introduction to the fundamentals of astronomy, including the sky at night, and summary of the main features of our solar system, this course focuses on stars, galaxies, and the universe.  Topics will include the following: the origins of stars and planetary systems; stars: the sun; properties and structures of stars; stellar interiors; the evolution of stars; stellar remnants; white dwarfs; neutron stars; blackholes, wormholes and warped spacetime; our galaxy: the Milky Way; the universe of galaxies; distance scales and indicators; active galaxies and quasars; cosmology: past, present, and future of the universe, "Is 'Anyone' Out There?" This is a self contained course. !3!
PHYS150!Physics for Future Leaders!This course examines the physics underlying major technological aspects of modern society and issues of global concern. Through addressing themes such as global warming, the energy problem and alternative sources of energy, nuclear power and nuclear weapons, health and medical technology, pollution of the atmosphere, satellites, telecommunication, and the internet, this course introduces basic physics topics such as motion and energy, atoms and heat, gravity and force, electricity and magnetism, light and electromagnetic waves, radioactivity and nuclear reactions, quantum physics, and relativity. This course requires no scientific or mathematical background and is accessible to students in any discipline. !3!
PHYS200!Thermal Physics!Thermodynamics and introductory statistical mechanics, including temperature, reversible processes and work, first law of thermodynamics, second law of thermodynamics, entropy thermodynamic potentials, change of phase, chemical potentials, third law of thermodynamics, kinetic theory of gases. !3!PHYS111,AND,MATH200
PHYS202!Electromagnetism and Optics!Magnetic field, Ampere's law, Faraday's law, inductance, magnetism and matter, electromagnetic oscillations, alternating currents, Maxwell's equations, electromagnetic waves, geometrical optics, interference, diffraction. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,4!PHYS111,AND,MATH200
PHYS205!Modern Physics I!This is the first part of a two-semester course in modern physics, providing an introduction to the theories of quantum mechanics and their applications.  Topics include foundations of quantum theory, the quantum theory of light, the particle and wave nature of matter, the Schrodinger equation in one and three dimensions, tunneling phenomena, atomic structure and spectroscopy, and molecules and molecular spectroscopy.!3!PHYS111
PHYS206!Modern Physics II!Ths is the second part of a two-semester course in modern physics, providing an introduction to the theories of quantum mechanices and relativity and their applications.  Topics include Lorentz transformations, relativistic kinematics, relativistic dynamics, statistical physics, the solid state of matter, structure of crystals, semiconductors and superconductors, nuclear structure, radioactivity,  nuclear reactions, applications of nuclear physics, elementary particles, and elements of cosmology.Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components.!0,4!PHYS205
PHYS300!Classical Mechanics!Analytical classical mechanics, including Newtonian mechanics, motion in non-inertial frames, Lagrangian dynamics, central-force motion, motion of rigid bodies, small oscillations, coupled oscillations, Hamiltonian dynamics. !3!PHYS111,AND,MATH220
PHYS302!Quantum Mechanics I!Breakdown of classical mechanics, wave packets, wave- particle duality, wave function and Schrodinger equation, eigenvalues and eigenfunctions, harmonic oscillatory, potential wells, potential barriers, central force problems, hydrogen atom, spin and angular momentum, time dependence of quantum states. !3!PHYS205,AND,MATH230
PHYS304!Biophysics!Topics include the physics of biological systems, physical principles and techniques used to study the structure and dynamics of biological membranes. !3!PHYS101,OR,PHYS111,AND,BIOL101
PHYS305!Electronics!Basics of electric and electronic circuits, including DC Circuits, Kirchoff's laws, Thevenin's and Norton's theorems, AC circuits, operational amplifiers, diodes, transistors, gates, combinational and sequential logic, filters, oscillators, control systems, digital circuits. !4!PHYS111,AND,PHYS202,AND,PHYS206
PHYS307!Selected Topics in Environmental Physics!This course is a survey of such topics as atmospheric cycles, thermal radiation and molecular absorption, pollution of the atmosphere, the Greenhouse effect, ozone depletion in the stratosphere, environmental aspects of nuclear energy and waste, the radon problem.  This course may not be used as Physics credit toward any Physics major, minor, or joint major degree. !3!PHYS101,OR,PHYS111
PHYS310!Classical Electromagnetism I!First part of a two-semester course in electrodynamics: the electric field and the scalar potential; Coulomb's and Guass's Laws; Poisson's and Laplace's equations; boundary-value problems in electrostatics; electric multipoles; electric energy and forces; dielectric materials and continuity conditions; the magnetic field and the vector potential; Ampere's law; magnetic materials; magnetic energy and forces. !3!MATH201,AND,PHYS202
PHYS351!Optics and Photonics I!Geometrical and physical optics: mathematics of wave motion, electromagnetic theory of light, photons, laws of geometrical optics, abberations in optical systems, optical instruments, supposition of waves, interference, polarization, diffraction, Fourier optics, holography. !3!PHYS202
PHYS390!Advanced Physics Laboratory!Advanced laboratory experiments in mechanics, thermodynamics, electromagnetism, solid state physics, and atomic and nuclear physics. !3!PHYS202,AND,PHYS206,AND,PHYS305
PHYS400!Quantum Mechanics II!Continuation of Quantum Mechanics I.  Covers: matrix formulation, perturbation theory, approximation methods, scattering theory, many-particle problems, identical particles, spin and statistics, atomic and molecular systems. !3!PHYS302
PHYS401!Seminar on Contemporary Topics in Physics!Special topics from current areas of research in basic and applied physics. !3!
PHYS402!Physics Research Project!Experimental or theoretical research project conducted by the student under the supervision of a faculty member. !3!PHYS390,OR,PHYS302,OR,PHYS300
PHYS404!Soild State Physics!Physics of the solid state of matter.  Covers: theories of metals, crystal lattices, reciprocal lattice, periodic potentials, electron dynamics, band structures, conduction in metals, phonons in metals, semiconductors, diamagnetism and paramagnetism, superconductivity. !3!PHYS302,AND,PHYS202,AND,PHYS206
PHYS406!Subatomic Physics!Properties and structure of subatomic particles, symmetries and conservation laws, electromagnetic, weak, and hadronic interactions, beta decay, alpha decay, gamma decay, models of nuclear reactions, fission, fusion, quarks and hadron spectroscopy. !3!PHYS302,AND,PHYS206
PHYS407!Statistical  Mechanics!Kinetic theory of gases, laws of thermodynamics, probability theory, probability distributions, equilibrium statistical ensembles, ideal gases, phase transitions, critical phenomena, quantum statistics. !3!PHYS302,AND,PHYS200
PHYS409!Mathematical Methods in Physics!This course surveys the methods and techniques involved in the formulation and solutions of physics problems.  Topics include matrix algebra and group theory, eigenvalue problems, differential equations, functions of a complex variable, Green's functions, Fourier series, integral equations, calculus of variations, and tensor analysis.!3!
PHYS410!Classical Electromagnetism II!Second part of a two-semester course in electrodynamics; Faraday's induction law; inductance; Maxwell's equations; generation and propagation of electromagnetic waves; plane waves; spherical waves; reflection and refraction; wave guides; electric dipole radiation; magnetic dipole radiation; antennas. !3!PHYS310,AND,MATH334
PHYS451!Optics and Photonics II!An examination of selected topics in modern optics, quantum optics and photonics. Topics will generally include: propogation of electromagnetic waves in waveguides, fiber optic transmission, laser oscillators, resonators and amplifiers, semiconductor photon sources and detectors, and nonlinear optical effects. !3!PHYS206,AND,PHYS310,AND,PHYS351
PHYS499!Advanced Topics in Physics!Topics include a selection of topics from contemporary Physics. !3!
POLS100!Contemporary Political Issues!An introduction to the basic concepts of political science through an examination of contemporary political issues: local, provincial, national and international. !0,3!
POLS200!Canadian Government and Politics!How Canadians organize their joint efforts to govern themselves at local, provincial, and federal levels. Attention is directed towards the political culture and its realization in constitutional rules of the game, in different institutions, and in the varied ways of influencing what governments do. !3!
POLS202!Canada in Comparative Perspective!This course compares the political, economic and social development of Canada with that of other industrial democracies and with that of developing and transitional countries throughout the world. The course focuses on several themes including democratic development and institutional growth; the role of government in society; citizen participation and engagement; and regional politics.!3!POLS100
POLS205!Philosophy of Science!A service course intended to introduce students to the conceptual/logical foundations of sciences.  Topics include the nature of logic, scientific explanation, law, theories, use of probability and statistics, role of ethics and politics in science. !3!
POLS255!Introduction to Law in Canada!This course is an introduction to the Canadian legal system and the practice of law in Canada.  Topics include an overview of the legislative and judicial processes as well as a survey of the major areas of law.  The course also introduces students to the role of the lawyer within the legal system. !3!
POLS257!Public Law in Canada!Public law includes the areas of law regulating the internal operations of governments and state agencies, the interactions among orders or levels of government and the interactions between state and non-state actors. Subjects covered in this course include constitutional law, administrative law, human rights law and criminal law and procedures. !3!
POLS258!Private Law in Canada!Private law refers in general to the areas  of law that regulate the interactions among non-state actors including citizens, corporations and non-state agencies. The course covers such areas as property law, torts, contracts, family law and commercial law in Canada. !3!
POLS270!Political Philosophy: Antiquity to Early Modernity!This course is a survey of political philosophy from the Greeks to the mid-17th century tracing the development of contending conceptions of political order.!3!
POLS290!Research and Writing for Political Science!This course provides training in essential research and writing skills in political science.  Students learn how to complete research papers in the discipline and thereby develop advanced reading and writing skills for their future careers.  Students are expected to complete this course in their first or second year of study. !3!
POLS298!Special Topics in Political Science!The content of this course varies according to instructor and student requests. This course may be repeated, up to a maximum of six credit hours. !0,3!
POLS302!How Government Works!This course enables students to navigate the political and bureaucratic structures and processes that shape our lives on a daily basis. It also provides students with practical skills to pursue careers in government at the local, provincial and federal levels.!3!POLS100
POLS303!Democracy and Dictatorship!A comparative study of the struggle for democracy and its alternative through a survey of different approaches to political development. !3!
POLS305!United States Politics!Organization and function of the United States Government. Examination of the constitution, political parties, electoral systems, voting record, state's rights, checks and balances. !3!
POLS306!Southeast Asian Politics!An analysis of the different strategies of political and economic development of selected Southeast Asian countries and the opportunities and contraints affecting these changing societies. !3!POLS202
POLS309!Politics and Society in China!The course examines Chinese political and social development through the 20th century with the primary attention to comparing past and present in state building, economic development, and social change. !3!
POLS311!Russian Politics & Society!This course examines the political, economic and social transitions that are currently taking place in Russia, as well as the historical forces that have shaped political life in this fascinating country.!3!
POLS314!European Politics and Government!This course introduces students to European politics and government. It focuses on the historical development and contemporary challenges facing the European Union, a supranational federation that includes the majority of European countries.!3!
POLS315!Contemporary Issues in the Circumpolar World!This course provides students with an in-depth understanding of a variety of issues in the Canadian and circumpolar Arctic, including governance and politics; Indigenous peoples and self-government; education; the environment and resource development; gender; health; and Arctic security and sovereignty.!3!NORS101
POLS316!Municipal Government and Politics!This course surveys approaches to the study of municipal government with special attention to citizen participation, and administrative efficiency in municipal politics. !3!
POLS317!Ethics!This course is a survey of historical and contemporary Western moral philosophy. Topics include philosophical ideas such as Platonism, virtue ethics, voluntarism, naturalism, Kantianism, social contract theory and consequentialism.!3!
POLS320!Canadian Politics and Policy!The course provides an introduction to the concepts, goals and methods of policy analysis, with applications to current policy issues in Canada, British Columbia and the North. Topics include public opinion surveys and the statistical analysis of policy preferences. !3!
POLS327!Leadership and Ethics in Local Government!This course examines the principles and practices of ethical leadership with a particular focus on local government.!3!
POLS332!Community Development!How can communities develop politically, economically and socially, in ways that serve their needs and are appropriate to their environment, culture and expectations?  The nature and interpretations of community development will be explored, using experiences from Canada, the Circumpolar North and the Asia-Pacific region. !3!
POLS333!Politics and Government of BC!A survey of the many faces and challenges of BC politics, with specific attention to political culture and parties, the political economy, government and administration, and contemporary issues. !3!
POLS338!Parties and Elections!An introduction to the concepts, methods and empirical tools used to study political parties and elections in Canada. !3!
POLS344!Society, Policy and Administration of Natural Resources!This course on natural resource and environmental management explores the ways in which ideas and interests are articulated and conflicts are resolved within the policy process.!3!
POLS350!Law and Municipal Government!This course is an examination of the legislation, regulations and court decisions relevant to municipal governments in British Columbia.!3!
POLS351!Local Services and Public Policy!This course examines local government services and the challenges involved in their delivery to local communities. Topics include public works, protective services, refuse collection, recreation and cultural services, health and social services and environmental protection.!3!
POLS360!Politics of Public Finance!This course examines budgeting with a particular focus on local government. Topics include assessment, taxation collection, the development of local budgets, provincial and federal government transfers and long-term financial planning.!3!
POLS370!Political Philosophy: Early Modernity to Post-Modernity!This course traces the history of Western political thought, in the wider context of the history of philosophy, from early modernity to the early twentieth century.  Thinkers discussed may include Aquinas, Ockham, Descartes, Hobbes,k Locke, Hume, Kant, Schopenhauer, Rousseau, Fichte, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche and Heidegger.!3!POLS270
POLS372!Theories of Justice!This course introduces students to the study of justice in contemporary political theory and practice. Specific topics include justice in the liberal and libertarian traditions, justice as impartiality, justice and the politics of difference, justice as a universal or culturally bound norm, reconciliation and transitional justice, and questions surrounding historic injustice and its contemporary redress. Case studies from Canada and around the globe are used to highlight the challenges associated with implementing the requirements of justice in concrete political settings.!3!
POLS400!Classics in Political Philosophy!This course provides a close analysis of a classic treatise in political philosophy. Texts vary yearly. The course may be repeated for a maximum of six credit hours with permission of the instructor.!3!POLS370
POLS403!Social and Health Policy and Administration!The evolution of social and health services in Canada in a comparative context.  The provision of public services, federal-provincial relations and the development of community health and social services. !3!
POLS405!Topics in Society and Democracy!This course is a comparative analysis of the challenges of political, economic and social transition.  Topics may include religion and democracy, the market and democracy, and constitutions and democracy. !3!
POLS412!Comparative Aboriginal State Relations!This course is a comparative study of relations between modern states and aboriginal peoples, and the quest by aboriginal peoples for self-determination.!3!
POLS413!Democracy and Diversity!This course is an exploration of the politics of ethnic, racial and religious diversity and its impact on the theory and practice of democracy in the 21st Century.  Theoretical concepts and models are examines in relation to case studies drawn from Canada and around the globe.!3!
POLS414!Comparative Federalism!This seminar course examines the theories, concepts and issues that influence politics and policy-making in federal countries around the world.!3!
POLS415!Comparative Northern Development!This seminar course examines the strategies and challenges of northern development in Canada, Russia and other parts of the Arctic region.!3!
POLS417!Ethical Leadership!This course provides an overview of the literature on leadership throughout history as well as reviews the main leadership theories developed in the 20th and 21st centuries with a focus on what makes a good leader, both in the sense of administrative or managerial effectiveness as well as in a moral sense. Models of successful leadership in both the public and private sector are explored through case studies. !3!
POLS422!Ethnographic Research Project!This course gives students the experience of a field school in which they study selected aspects of politics, cultures and peoples in order to design and carry out a major research project. Course materials vary depending on the location of the field school and on the general research topic. This course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 credit hours.!3,6!
POLS427!Ethics and Public Affairs!This course is an exploration of the ethical foundations of domestic and foreign policy making in contemporary democratic states. Special emphasis is placed on the tension that frequently arises between moral idealism and political realism in the conduct of public affairs.!3!
POLS434!Resource Communities in Transition!An examination of issues facing rural, remote and northern resource communities across Canada. It compares issues from across Canada's provincial norths as well as has a specific focus on northern British Columbia. Issues discussed include, among other things, the economic realities of globalization,  the issues of identity for resource communities, and the issue of urban policy decision processes on rural, remote and northern regions. !3!
POLS440!Internship I!Students with proposals relating to possible credit for an internship arrangement should consult the Program Advisor well in advance. !3!
POLS441!Internship II!Continuing Internship. !3!
POLS472!Seminar in Political Philosophy!This is a participatory seminar in which students are guided through the process of conducting a research project in political philosophy. Topics are chosen according to student's interests. !3!
POLS498!Special Topics in Political Science!The content of this course varies according to the instructor and students.  This course may be repeated up to a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission from the Department Chair.!3!
POLS499!Independent Study!Content of course will vary according to instructor and student requests. !3!
PSYC101!Psychology as a Science!This course describes psychology as a basic science in two logical modules: psychology as a natural science and psychology as a social science.  May be taken concurrently with PSYC 102-3. !3!
PSYC102!Psychology and Human Problems!This course describes how psychological science has been applied to understanding and dealing with many of the practical problems of human existence.  Topics addressed include the promotion of healthy human development, health science applications of psychology, including the description and treatment of psychological disorders and the contribution of psychology to the understanding and modifications of social problems. !3!PSYC101
PSYC200!Contemporary Issues in Psychology!This course deals with how concepts from psychology may be addressed to topics of current public interest.  Examples of issues that may be included are psychological issues in the north, family violence, psychology and the justice system, modelling intelligent behaviour.  The theme of the course will be updated each year and advertised in advance. This course may be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. !3,6!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC202!Philosophy of Mind!This course provides an introduction to fundamental issues in the philosophy of mind including the nature of the mind, the relationship between the mind and the body, and the nature of our thoughts and perceptions.  Also included is an introduction to the works of some of the leading philosophers in the field. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC215!Research Design and Methodology in Psychology I!In this course students will learn basic research design and the methods psychologists use to investigate behaviour and mental processes, with particular emphasis on empirical methodology. This course provides students with hands-on experience in research design, data collection and writing research reports in APA style. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and lab components if applicable. !0,3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC220!Psychology of Gender and Gender Relations!An introduction to contemporary issues related to differences in the experience and behaviour of males and females. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC301!Social Psychology!This course examines human behaviour in its social context. Specific topics covered include interpersonal interaction, social motivation and attitudes, prejudice, socialization and communication. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC303!Introduction to Abnormal Psychology!This course provides an introduction to the study of abnormal behaviour. Topics include the history of psychopathology, definitions of abnormality, classification and assessment, models of psychopathology and an introduction to the specific syndromes of abnormal behaviour. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC306!Theories of Personality!This course provides an introduction to the study of personality. Influential models of personality structure and function are examined as are techniques for personality assessment. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC307!Motivation and Emotion!This course addresses the properties and determinants of motivated behaviour and emotional states.  Topics include eating and drinking, defence, sexual behaviour and the nature, structure and mechanisms of emotion. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC309!Introduction to Health Psychology!This course provides an introduction to behavioural health science. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC315!Design and Analysis of Psychological Research I!This course addresses the design, description and analysis psychological research. Principles of research design are taught, along with common methods for analyzing data from descriptive statistics through correlational and nonparametric techniques to analysis of variance. Multivariate methods are introduced. Research design and analysis issues are addressed in an integrated manner. Please note: You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,4!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC215
PSYC316!Design and Analysis of Psychological Research II!This course is a continuation of Psychology 315-4, addressing the design, description and analysis of psychological  research. Please note: You must register separately in lecture and lab components. !0,4!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC315,AND,PSYC215
PSYC317!Psychobiology!This course offers an introduction to the study of the biological roots of behaviour. It addresses the structure and function of the nervous system and its role in psychological processes, including perception, emotion, motivation, cognition, memory and overt behaviour. !0,3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC318!Sensation and Perception!This course offers an introduction to the study of sensory processes. Topics include vision, audition, taste, olfaction and somesthetic senses. These are taught within the context of the physiological and psychophysical methods that give rise to knowledge in this field. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC320!The Psychology of Learning!This course provides an introduction to the study of learning. Topics covered include classical and operant processes, and cognitive models of response acquisition and change. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC330!Cognition!This course provides an introduction to current research and theories of human mental processes and the methods used to study them.  Topics may include attention, memory processes and systems, concept formation, language processing, problem solving, reasoning, and judgement and choice. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC345!Lifespan Development!This course addresses the development of psychological abilities and characteristics and the mechanisms that subserve them.  The full range of the human lifespan, from the prenatal period to the senior years, is examined. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102
PSYC401!Advanced Social Psychology!Advanced issues in the examination of human behaviour in its social context. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC301,AND,PSYC215
PSYC403!Patterns of Psychopathology and Their Treatment!This course addresses major syndromes of abnormal behaviour, introducing students to the major biological and experiential theories of their origins.  Approaches to treatment are also addressed. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC303,AND,PSYC215
PSYC405!Clinical Psychology!This course deals with the contemporary practice of clinical psychology.  Topics include the role of the clinical psychologist, psychological assessment, the conduct of psychological therapies and ethical issues. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC303,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC403
PSYC408!Environmental Problems and Human Behaviour!This course is a study of the individuals role in environmental conservation. Many environmental problems have their origin in human behaviour. The field of psychology is able to identify factors within and outside the individual that give rise to unsustainable lifestyles and, therefore, to identify approaches to conservation that take human psychology and well-being into consideration.!3!
PSYC409!Advanced Health Psychology!This course focuses on advanced issues in the field of health psychology.  Topics include psychology, epidemiology, health behaviour and its determinants, stress and its management, the modification of health-related behaviour, disease prevention and health promotion.  Note: BHSc students can use HHSC 351-3 as a pre-requisite in lieu of PSYC 215-3. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC309,AND,PSYC215,OR,HHSC351
PSYC415!Advanced Developmental Psychology!This course deals with advanced issues in the field of developmental psychology.  Topics may include development of self, sex differences in interpersonal styles, adolescent problems such as drug and alcohol abuse, pregnancy and suicide, parenting, divorce, families, adulthood, death and bereavement, or successful aging. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC345,OR,SOCW421
PSYC417!Behaviour Modification!This course examines the application of behavioural and social learning concepts to the change of problematic human behaviour. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC215
PSYC418!Advanced Issues in Perception and Sensation!This course provides a treatment of advanced questions in the study of perception. Building on an understanding of fundamental sensory mechanisms, this course provides further exploration of the mechanisms of perception and the manner in which perceptual processes are integrated with such other psychological processes as attention, learning, memory and cognition. Mechanisms are highlighted by discussion of such topics as the perception of pain, emotion and speech. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC318,AND,PSYC215
PSYC419!Neuropsychology!An introduction to sensory, motor, cognitive and affective disorders resulting from brain damage and dysfunction. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC317,AND,PSYC215
PSYC427!Cross-Cultural Psychology!This course deals with cultural differences in behaviour, with a special emphasis on intercultural issues in pluralistic societies. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC301,AND,PSYC215
PSYC430!Advanced Cognitive Psychology!This course examines advanced issues in the study of cognition. Topics may include models of memory, implicit learning, decision theory, computer simulation of thought and action. !3!PSYC101,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC330,AND,PSYC215
PSYC442!Methods in Developmental Psychology!This course addresses experimental and observational methods used in developmental psychology. !3!PSYC345,OR,SOCW421,AND,PSYC315,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC445!Methods in Perception and Psychophysics!This course provides exposure to the psychophysical techniques used in the study of human sensory systems and perception. !3!PSYC318,AND,PSYC315,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC450!Tests and Measures!This course provides exposure to the design, conduct, and interpretation of common techniques for describing human thoughts, feelings, and behaviours. !3!PSYC315,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC455!Methods in Social Psychology!This course addresses experimental and observational techniques commonly used to test hypotheses about human social behaviour. !3!PSYC301,AND,PSYC315,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC460!Methods in Cognitive Psychology!This seminar-style course allows students to discuss, present and critically evaluate research on human mental processes, with particular emphasis on methodological issues. !3!PSYC330,AND,PSYC315,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC470!Psychophysiology!This course offers an introduction to the measurement of physiological responses to psychological conditions. !3!PSYC301,OR,PSYC306,OR,PSYC307,OR,PSYC309,OR,PSYC317,AND,PSYC315,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC475!The Evaluation of Social Programs!This course offers an introduction to the methods and processes of program evaluation. Topics covered include needs assessment, the development of measures, formative and summative evaluation. !3!PSYC315,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC480!Critical Analysis in Psychology and the Health Sciences!This course addresses the logic of drawing conclusions in psychology and the health sciences. Through an analysis of the requirements for conducting reviews of the literature on a particular topic, the process of summarizing findings, and the conduct of clinical trials and their analysis, students are exposed to common pitfalls in and prerequisites for the establishment of knowledge. !3!PSYC315,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC485!Current Topics in Psychological Research!This course provides exposure to advanced laboratory methods applied to areas of emerging interest in psychology. !3!PSYC315,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC490!Honours Thesis I!In this course, students pursue an independent research project. Credit for this course is based on the introduction and proposed methodology for the project. !3!PSYC315,AND,PSYC316,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC495!Honours Thesis II!In this course, students pursue an independent research project. Credit for this course is based on a report of the results and implications of the project. !3!PSYC315,AND,PSYC316,AND,PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC497!Senior Seminar!This course provides an integrative seminar for advanced students. Enrolment is restricted to fourth-year Psychology students. !3!PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC498!Special Topics in Psychology!A course on a special topic, delivered in a lecture or seminar format.  No more than 3 credits in Special Topics courses may be applied toward a major in Psychology. !3!PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
PSYC499!Independent Study!A course on a selected topic based on readings directed by an instructor.  The course format and requirements will be based on a formal contract with the instructor.  No more than 6 credits may be applied toward a major in Psychology. !3,6!PSYC215,AND,PSYC102,AND,PSYC101
SOCW200!Introduction to Social Work Practice!This course provides an overview of Social Work practive including the historical, political, philosophical and practical bases in Canadian Society.  It introduces students to the values, concepts, and relevant Social Work Codes of Ethics. There is also an overview of current social problems and related fields of practice. !3!
SOCW201!Introduction to Social Welfare!Introduces students to the welfare state in Canadian society.  It examines historical, ideological and contemporary issues in the Canadian welfare state and reviews some of the major programs, policies and concerns confronting policy makers, social workers and client groups. !3!
SOCW300!Social Work Communication Skills!Communication Skills in Social Work Practice is an introductory course that aims to increase skills and analysis in the diverse cultural settings that are appropriate to social work among First Nations and remote, northern and rural communities.  Learning to recognize the contradictions in people's experiences and to maximize the possibilities, resources and strengths in their lives are critical aspects of a social worker's practice. Emphasis on integration of interpersonal and analytic skills in learning effective helping strategies within a stuctural framework that acknowledges the influence of class, race and gender in shaping personal and social well-being.  This course includes a Skills Laboratory. !3!
SOCW301!Critical Social Work Practice!This course critically examines the historical origins, values, methods and applications of various social work practice approaches.  With an emphasis on structural, feminist, and First Nations social work strategies, the focus includes the application of these approaches to women, minority groups, First Nations, and residents of northern and remote communities.  These will be contrasted with other models of social work practice including general systems theory, ecological theory, and case management. !3!
SOCW302!Social Work Field Education I!An initial three-day per week field placement, which includes a bi-weekly integrative seminar, is required of all students. Students are involved in a wide range of practice roles and responsibilities at the individual, family, group and community levels. The course provides an initial opportunity for students to link social work concepts and theory with practice skills. It also introduces students to the structure, goals and operation of different human service agencies. Field practice objectives and details are worked out among the student, the agency supervisor and the faculty field instructor.!6!SOCW300,AND,SOCW301,AND,SOCW310,AND,SOCW320
SOCW310!First Nations Social Work Issues!This course examines methods of developing an antiracist social work practice in the context of First Nations experience.  Particular emphasis is placed on understanding emerging models and structures within First Nations communities. The development of these models is explored within a context of analyzing the impact of the colonial experience. Students are introduced to alternative methods including some of the healing stategies and organizational structures in First Nations communities. !3!
SOCW320!Critical Social Policy!This course examines the development of social policy in Canada, including current debates from conventional and critical perspectives inviting students to consider the relationship between research, policy and social work practice.  The course will review ideologies of social welfare policy, its formulation and implementation and consequences for people in need.  Policy formulation will be analyzed from a critical perspective that examines the role of power and privilege in the constuction of social policy.  Alternative social arrangements and models of policy and practice will be explored. !3!
SOCW330!Social Work Research/Policy/Practice!Social Work Research, Policy and Practice introduces research methods and analysis techniques that are used to examine issues in the policy and practice of social work and social welfare.  It reviews qualitative and quantitative approaches with an emphasis on community needs research, participatory research and the development of interview schedules and questionnaires.  The methods examined in this course will be linked to substantive policy and practice issues that reflect the economic, social and personal circumstances of people and communities in northern, remote and First Nations communities. !3!
SOCW336!Social Work Philosophy and Ethics!This course critically asesses the ethical issues involved in carrying out the tasks of Social Work practice, policy and research.  Using the relevant Social Work Codes of Ethics as a starting point, these practice, policy and research roles are considered in the context of northern and remote Social Work.  The course reviews different theoretical approaches to Social Work. !3!
SOCW401!Northern/Remote Social Work Practice!Northern and Remote Social Work Practice builds on the structural approach examined in SOCW 301-3.  Critical generalist practice will be examined within the context of current and emerging client populations and practice issues.  The course aims to develop a critical awareness/analysis of the nature, cause and response of social workers to the social problems they are meant to deal with in the field of practice aspects of their work in northern and remote communities. !3!SOCW200,AND,SOCW201,AND,SOCW300,AND,SOCW301,AND,SOCW302,AND,SOCW320,AND,SOCW330,AND,SOCW336
SOCW402!Social Work Field Education II!This field placement requires students to perform in a social work role or organizational setting five days per week throughout the term. Field education provides undergraduate students with an opportunity to enhance and refine their social work skills. As much as possible, the assigned field education setting will broadly match the particular type of social work experience that the student wishes to pursue. The course includes three one-day seminars as part of the field education placement.!1!SOCW200,AND,SOCW201,AND,SOCW300,AND,SOCW301,AND,SOCW320,AND,SOCW330,AND,SOCW336,AND,SOCW302,AND,SOCW310,AND,SOCW401,AND,SOCW420,AND,SOCW421
SOCW402! Pre-MSW Field Education!This practicum is for students enrolled in the Pre-MSW program.  It represents the major practicum before moving on to the final MSW year.  It is required by all Pre-MSW students.  This course gives students an opportunity to recast their practice experiences into a social work practice and policy theoretical framework.  It is geared to the student's social work thinking and skill development with communities, individuals, families and groups within a field practice setting in this region of British Columbia. Students will usually become involved in the professional practice and delivery of social work within the setting of an agency. A weekly Seminar/Skills Review Lab permits students to reflect on their practice experience. This seminar assists in the integration of theory and practice by broadening the professional knowledge base through the sharing of experience and practice. !1!SOCW300,AND,SOCW301,AND,SOCW320,AND,SOCW401
SOCW420!Family/Child Welfare Policy!Family and Child Welfare Policy focuses particularly on feminist and First Nations critiques of child welfare policy and social work intervention.  It critically examines assumptions in family and child welfare policy including notions of family, substitute care, conceptions about violence and neglect, and the implications of child and welfare policy for social work practice in northern communities. !3!SOCW320
SOCW421!Human Growth and Development!This course examines human growth and development with an emphasis on social processes from birth to death. The course follows a life cycle approach and addresses the influence of issues such as culture, class, gender and sexual orientation. Linkages are drawn between individual human development and health and social welfare policy, particularly as it affects residents of northern British Columbia. Note: Students who have not taken a human growth and development course must take this course prior to graduating with a BSW. If students have previously taken a Human Growth and Development course, they must check with a Student Advisor to ensure that the course meets the Human Growth and Development requirement. !3!
SOCW422!Child Welfare Practice!This course examines child maltreatment from the perspective of social work practice in the field of child welfare. The course looks at various forms of child maltreatment including methods of assessing maltreatment and the cultural and structural factors that must be considered in assessing issues such as risk. Intervention strategies are also examined along with the legal procedures and responsibilities carried by the child welfare social workers. !3!SOCW301
SOCW424!Child Welf/Sites of Resistance!Sites of Resistance: Race, Poverty and Sexuality in the Fields of Child Welfare focuses on contemporary child welfare policy and practice from the standpoints of racial and sexual minorities as well as from those on the economic margins of contemporary capitalist/patriarchal society. !3!SOCW420
SOCW426!Current Issues in Child Welfare Practice!This course highlights topical child welfare issues and current trends in child welfare practice, examines different methods of intervention and attempts to link changes in the economic circumstances of families to the social well-being and healthy family functioning. !3!
SOCW432!Unemployment and Social Work!Unemployment, Social Welfare and Social Work Practice examines the implications of unemployment and under-employment for social work practice and policy within a provincial, national and global context.  In particular, the course will focus on the reframing of unemployment as a social work issue, explore the social consequences of joblessness, and identify models of policy and practice which are applicable in different environments: northern, rural, urban and single industry communities. Alternative policies will be explored. !3!
SOCW433!Women in the Human Services!From a feminist and structural social work perspective, this course examines a range of women's issues in terms of socialization, work, health, sexuality, power and the state, legal issues and the impact these have on the roles and positions of women in Canadian society, and in particular within human and social services. !3!
SOCW435!Community Social Policy!This course represents a community practice project geared to integrating Social Work theory, policy, research and practice with specific community issues.  Students prepare public briefs on actual areas of community concern in the light of Social Work and welfare theory, policy and practice.  The brief focuses on proposed forms of action and the implementation of the strategies of change and intervention. !3!
SOCW437!Social Work with Groups and Communities!This course examines the historical evolution of group work and the role that Social Work has played within this context.  Different types of group approaches and experiences are discussed, including professionally led groups and self-help groups.  Students consider the operation of groups through analysis of group norms, roles, values, goals and decision making from a perspective that is both theoretical and experiential. !3!
SOCW438!Comparative Welfare Analysis!This course provides a critical introduction to Canadian and comparative social policy as it relates to evolving issues in Social Work practice.  Its main theme is to show how the welfare systems of individual countries can only be understood through exploring the wider international context.  Particular attention is paid to the interactions between family policies and issues of race and gender, and to the processes by which individuals or groups are given or denied access to full welfare citizenship.  Topics include principles of comparative studies, models of welfare, convergence versus divergence, the dynamics of welfare-state development, welfare regime analysis, crisis of the welfare states, and the impact of welfare states. !3!
SOCW439!Social Work/Law and the Justice System!This course examines various areas of the Canadian legal system; constitutional documents and conventions, the court system, the provincial legislative powers, rights of Aboriginal Peoples, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and provincial legislation (such as Adoption Act; Child, Family and Community Service Act; Child, Youth and Family Advocacy Act, Family Relations Act, etc.). It also examines the practice of Social Work in court settings.  Specifically, it provides a basic understanding of the rights and interests of children, rules of evidence, and the role of various interveners. Court writing skills will be introduced and court visits will be arranged. !0,3!
SOCW440!Social Work in Mental Health!This course examines policy and practice issues pertaining to the understanding and delivery of Social Work services to people with a psychiatric disability.  Although the content explores many ideas that are international and national in scope, the primary focus is on the policies and practices that are relevant to people in Northern British Columbia.  Students examine assessment and intervention methods as well as analyze the impact of current trends and changes in the health and social welfare system as they pertain to people who require mental health services.  The nature and impact of psychiatric disability are viewed from both an individual level as well as a structural level of analysis.  The major emphasis is on practice and policy issues relating to people who are described as "psychiatric survivors". !3!
SOCW441!Social Work and Substance Abuse!Social Work and Substance Abuse examines alcohol and other drugs in terms of their effects on individuals, families and society.  It also looks at different roles of social workers and human service workers in helping people deal with and understand alcohol and drug abuse. !3!
SOCW442!Social Work with Victims of Abuse!Social Work with Victims of Abuse examines physical, emotional, and sexual abuse and violence perpetrated on less powerful individuals.  The roles played by the helping professions in this context are also examined. !3!
SOCW443!Medical Social Work!Focuses on the knowledge, attitudes and skills workers need to practice effectively in health care settings.  Case studies will be used to demonstrate different methods of intervention in this context. !3!
SOCW444!Social Work Critical Issues in Aging!Critical Issues in Aging, Social Work Practice and Research examines the physical, social and psychological needs of the elderly.  Adaptation of generic social work skills in effective intervention with and on behalf of the aged is also examined. !3!
SOCW445!Social Work and Cross-Cultural Practice!Social Work and Cross-Cultural Practice provides interdisciplinary approaches to understanding cultural and visible minority groups in relation to society and differential access to power are examined.  The course will examine and critically evaluate different methods of assistance and intervention offered by social work to minority groups. !3!
SOCW448!Inequality and Income Security!Poverty, Inequality and Income Security examines the changing landscape of Canadian social policy and its implications for poverty, income inequality and income security.  It reviews the evolution and devolution of major Canadian income security policies with a special focus on British Columbia.  The implications of these changes on poverty and income inequality are examined for the people that live and work in northern British Columbia. This is done by looking at changes in poverty and income inequality for specific groups that include single mothers, First Nations, women, men, the unemployed and underemployed, the elderly, and those dependent on public assistance. !3!
SOCW449!Gender and Sexuality!This course critically examines constructions of gender and sexuality that include cross-cultural and class analyses. It also focuses on the historical character of sexual relations and gender and begins to challenge what is taken for granted in contemporary society specifically as these notions affect social work policy and practice. !3!
SOCW450!Social Work and Family Practice!Social Work and Family Practice through the application of family systems theory, will examine current approaches to working with families in community counselling settings. Completion of a family assessment, as well as a critical examination of power dynamics in families, and their connection with the larger society will be undertaken. Issues of gender, race, age, class, sexual preference, and so on will be analyzed in this context. !3!
SOCW452!Social Work/Crisis Intervention!Crisis Intervention in Social Work examines the historical development of crisis intervention practice and theory. Several models of crisis intervention are presented with an analysis of their application to particular areas and fields of social work practice.  Included in the fields of practice are suicide assessment and intervention, child abuse, spousal assault, physical illness and disability, psychiatric emergency and grief resolution.  Analysis and discussion will centre around crisis intervention as it applies to social work practice with minority groups in northern communities.  In addition to lecture and discussion material, interview and process skills will be practised in this course. !3!
SOCW453!Faith, Power and Practice!Faith, Power and Practice:  The Impact of Religion and Spirituality on Human Service Work will provide a forum for the critical exploration of the impact and influence of religious thought and practices on human service work.  The historical roots of this work are based in religious movements, aspects of which still affect today's practice/ policy.  In an increasingly multicultural environment, students must have a fundamental understanding of religion and spirituality in order to practice effectively. !3!
SOCW454!Disability Issues!This course involves students in an examination of perspectives on disability, as well as critical analysis of current theories, policies, and practice.  The course begins with an examination of common assumptions about disability and provides opportunities to challenge and critique interpretation of the nature and meaning of disability. !3!
SOCW455!First Nations Governance and Social Policy!Family values and standards of First Nations form the basis of the study on First Nations policy development and its relationship to self-governance for First Nations communities. Topics explored include self-determination from a First Nations perspective, its impact on Canadian Social Policy, along with the necessity to address Child and Family social needs into self-governance and planning. The course focuses on examples within British Columbia communities. Additionally, the course explores the importance of how social work practitioners need to become skilled advocates aimed at influencing policy and laws affecting First Nations and family systems. !3!
SOCW456!Family Caring Systems!This course develops an understanding of family caring systems from an Aboriginal/First Nations perspective. Topics explored include Aboriginal/First Nations world views, traditional roles of family members, the role that historical events have played in the development and current social realities of First Nations and the role that social workers can play in family wellness. Contemporary Social Work practices with Aboriginal/First Nations children and families are also analyzed and critically reflected upon, with a particular emphasis on directions in Aboriginal/First Nations child and family welfare. !0,3!
SOCW457!Individual & Community Wellness!This course develops an understanding of the role that wellness plays in the life of Aboriginal/First Nations individuals and communities. Topics explored include the definition of healing and wellness, the role that historical events have played in the development and current socio-economic situation of First Nations and the role that social workers can play in the future development of health and wellness of First Nations individuals and communities. As well, the issue of self-care and self-management for First Nations people and the social workers who may work in high stress situations is explored. !3!
SOCW497!Reflection on Practice!This course is designed for students who are, or plan to be, working in a child welfare setting. The objective is to provide an opportunity to reflect on practice experience. The historical and cultural development of social work practice models is surveyed emphasizing contemporary models such as anti-oppressive practice, constructivism and feminist practice. Assessment, intervention planning, advocacy, organizing, recording, confidentiality, evaluation, case management, interdisciplinary and termination are also studied. !3!
SOCW498!Special Topics!Special topics courses may be offered from time to time. These courses are available to permit faculty to offer courses in areas that fall within their particular areas of research and expertise in Social Work practice and policy. With permission of the Chair of the Social Work Program, students may repeat the course for credit. !3,6!
SOCW499!Directed Readings!Students can undertake a directed reading course in order to fulfill a particular learning need and area of interest. Directed readings are dependent upon the availability of faculty resources. !3!
SOCW501!Aboriginal Peoples in Canada: Past/Present/Future!This course examines the history of Aboriginal peoples in Canada coupled with an examination of current and future impacts in relation to Aboriginal children and youth. A particular focus is on the importance and knowledge of traditional family systems, parental attachment, and evolving methods and practices. Interwoven discussions also include managing personal issues in professional practice, self-care and the concepts of bringing together Aboriginal and Western frameworks for health and mental health. !3!
SOCW502!Reflections on Practice: Child/Youth Mental Health!This course is designed for students who are, or plan to be, working in an Aboriginal child and youth mental health setting. The objective is to provide an opportunity to reflect on practice experience. The historical and cultural development of social work practice models is surveyed emphasizing contemporary models such as anti- oppressive practice, constructivisim, and feminist practice. Assessment, intervention, planning, advocacy, organizing, recording, confidentiality, evaluation, case management, interdisciplinary environments, and termination are also studied. !3!
SOCW503!Social Work/Counseling Skills with Children/Youth!This course examines practice and intervention skills focused on restoring balance when working with Aboriginal children and youth. The course examines basic issues of child development as well as communication skills that are effective in working with younger people. Specific therapeutic assessments and interventions are discussed and practiced within the course. The importance of balancing the relationship between western and traditional treatment and intervention approaches is also examined. !3!
SOCW504!Mental Illness and Addictions among Children/Youth!Common types of mental illness are studied along with an overview of substance misuse and addictions. Structural elements impacting mental health such as poverty, racism, and isolation are considered as well as biological, traumatic, attachment, and familial factors.  The epidemiology of mental illness among Aboriginal children and youth is examined along with factors associated with etiology. Pharmacological interventions are also examined. !3!
SOCW505!Crisis Work With Children/Youth: Restoring Balance!This course examines the nature of crisis and looks at the type of crisis situations faced by children and youth, giving special attention to Aboriginal children and youth. Basic crisis intervention skills are identified and practiced towards the restoration of balance. There is a particular focus on suicide, including assessment of suicide lethality, intervention skills, skills for working with survivors, cluster suicide and suicide epidemics, and prevention work. Other trauma or crisis work, critical incident debriefing with children and youth and an examination of individual, family and community risk and protective factors are also addressed. !3!
SOCW506!Community-Based Prevention: Creating Balance!This course examines community prevention strategies and risk reduction as it applies to child and youth mental health, highlighting the role and restoration of traditional activities that promote wellness for Aboriginal children and youth. Interventions and practical application of prevention strategies in relation to suicide, parenting, disability, and other issues are addressed. Approaches to identifying and building on existing community programs and community strengths are also emphasized. !3!
STAT240!Basic Statistics!This course is an introduction to the basic principles of statistics and procedures for data analysis. Topics include gathering data, displaying and summarizing data, examining relationships between variables, probability models, sampling distributions, estimation and significance tests, inference for means and proportions in one and two sample situations, contingency tables, and simple linear regression. Students register in a computer lab corresponding to their area of interest. Please note: You must register separately in lecture and lab/tutorial components if applicable. !0,3!
STAT371!Probability and Statistics for Scientists and Engineers!This course is a calculus-based introduction to the theory and application of probability and statistics. The topics covered include concepts of probability, events, populations, probability theorems, the concept of a random variable, continuous and discrete random variables, joint probability distributions, distributions of functions of a random variable, moments, Chebyshevs inequality, the de Moivre-Laplace theorem, the central limit theorem, sampling and statistical estimation theory, hypothesis testing, simple regression analysis, and an introduction to the design of experiments.!3!MATH101
STAT372!Mathematical Statistics!This course introduces the theory of statistical inference. Topics covered from likelihood theory are maximum likelihood estimation, sufficiency, and the likelihood ratio test. Topics covered from frequentist theory are point estimation, unbiasedness, consistency, efficiency, confidence intervals, and small sample and large sample hypothesis tests. Topics covered from Bayesian theory are risk, point estimation, and credible intervals.!3!MATH371,OR,STAT371
STAT441!Nonparametric Statistics!This course discusses the methodology and application of nonparametric statistics. Topics covered include goodness-of-fit tests, contingency tables, empirical distribution function tests, the sign test, the Wilcoxon test, the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test, the Kruskal-Wallis test, and rank correlation.!3!MATH240,OR,STAT240,OR,MATH242,OR,MATH341,OR,MATH342,OR,MATH371,OR,STAT371,OR,ECON205,OR,PSYC315
STAT471!Linear Models!This course discusses the estimation of parameters in the multiple linear regression model by the least-squares method. Topics covered include the statistical properties of the least-spares estimators, the Gauss-Markov theorem, estimates of residual and regression sums of squares, distribution theory under normality of the observations, assessment of normality, variance stabilizing transformations, examination of multicollinearity, variable selection methods, logistic regression for a binary response, log-linear models for count data, and generalized linear models.!3!MATH150,OR,MATH220,AND,ECON205,OR,MATH240,OR,MATH371,OR,PSYC315,OR,STAT240,OR,STAT371
STAT472!Survey Sampling Design and Analysis!This course discusses the planning and practice of sample surveys. Topics covered include simple random sampling, unequal probability sampling, stratified sampling, cluster sampling, multistage sampling, cost-effective design, analysis and control of sources of sampling and non-sampling error, ratio estimation, model-based regression estimation, resampling, and replication methods.!3!STAT240,OR,STAT371,OR,MATH240,OR,MATH371,OR,ECON205,OR,PSYC315
STAT473!Experimental Design and Analysis!This course discusses experimental designs and analyses. Topics covered include basic principles and guidelines for designing experiements, simple comparative designs, single factor, analysis of variance, block designs, factorial designs, response surface methods and designs, nested and split plot designs, and the analysis of covariance.!3!MATH150,OR,MATH220,AND,MATH240,OR,STAT240,OR,MATH371,OR,STAT371,OR,ECON205,OR,PSYC315
STAT475!Methods for Multivariate Data!This course discusses practical techniques for the analysis of multivariate data. Topics covered include estimation and hypothesis testing for multivariate means and variances; partial, multiple and canonical correlations; principal components analysis and factor analysis for data reduction; multivariate analysis of variance; discriminant analysis for classification; and cluster analysis.!3!MATH150,OR,MATH220,AND,MATH471,OR,STAT471
STAT499!Special Topics in Statistics!The topic for this course varies, depending on student interest and faculty availability. The course may be taken any number of times provided that topics are distinct.!1,3!
STAT530!Undergraduate Thesis!This undergraduate thesis allows students to examine and research a topic in the field of statistics. Students must have completed at least 90 credit hours and be a Mathematics major. This thesis may be taken in one or two semesters. STAT 530 is normally taken over two semesters and requires that a student find an Undergraduate Thesis research supervisor. Therefore, students are encouraged to apply to potential supervisors well in advance of completing 90 credit hours. This course is taken for a total of 6 credit hours.!3,6!
UNIV101!Introduction to Higher Education!University 101 is most appropriate for students who are in their first year of study at university. It offers an introduction to the university as an institution of higher learning, to the various methods of intellectual inquiry employed therein, and to the study skills and learning strategies that are required for academic success. !0,3!
WMST100!Introduction to Women's Studies!A study of past and present women's positions in and contributions to society from a multidisciplinary perspective.  Specific topics, with a focus on western society, will include an historical overview of politics, law and the family, productive roles, health and illness, science, culture and philosophy. Please note:  You must register separately in lecture and tutorial separately where applicable. !0,3!
WMST103!Introduction to Gender Studies!This course explores the ways in which human beings think about and structure gender.  Topics include ideologies of masculinity and femininity, gender and psychology, gendered language, the relationship between gender and sexuality, and gender in popular culture and media. !0,3!
WMST209!Gender and Cultural Studies: An Introduction!This course introduces students to questions of gender, media representation, and technology. Students examine the construction of femininity and masculinity in such visual technologies as advertising, video, television, and film. !3!
WMST211!Feminist Critical Thought!This course introduces students to the philosophical, cultural, and political foundations of feminist critical thought. !3!
WMST220!Gender and Literary Theory!This course provides an introduction to critical analyses of gender and their implications for literature. Students gain an overview of some current topics in gender theory and apply these to contemporary texts. !3!
WMST221!Women and Literature: A Survey!This course is a survey of works of poetry and fiction written by women in English from the Renaissance to the present. The course considers feminist theory and criticism in relation to these works. !3!
WMST302!Women and the Contmporary World!This course examines the role of women in the contemporary world through a comparative examination of different societies. Topics to be addressed will include such issues as legal status, health, family, work, sexuality and violence. !3!WMST100
WMST303!Lesbian and Bisexual Lives!This course introduces students to lesbian and bisexual women's studies from an historical perspective as well as focusing on contemporary contexts and issues.  Students will study the diversity of political perspectives among lesbian and bisexual women and how sexuality intersects with race, class, ability and cultural differences. !3!WMST204
WMST304!Contemporary Women's Writing in an International Frame!This course covers a range of contemporary women writers in an international context.  Writers will be examined in relation to developments in the women's movement and in light of recent feminist literary theoretical insights into narrative, genre, and representation. !3!
WMST306!Indigenous Women: Perspectives!The purpose of this course is twofold: first to understand how Indigenous women's lives have been shaped by colonialism and secondly to delineate the global themes in their current political and social struggles to transcend the colonial legacy that continues to constrain them. !3!FNST100,OR,WMST100
WMST307!Qualitiative Research Methods!This course introduces students to a variety of research practices, including oral history, interviews, case studies, archival and library research, survey/content analysis, and field work. !0,3!WMST100
WMST309!Gender and Film!This course addresses the construction of gender in films  that focus explicitly on the question of gender in relation to class, race, sexuality, ethnicity, colonialism and nationalism. Note: students who have completed WMST 206-3 prior to 1996-97 academic year, may not take this course for credit. !3!WMST209
WMST311!History of Feminism!This course surveys the history of those various political, social and cultural movements, e.g. suffragism, women's liberation, etc., which have combined to create the phenomenon of feminism. Attention is also devoted to the diverse theories, ideas and values that underpin contemporary feminism. !3!WMST100
WMST312!An Introduction to the History of Gender!This course explores issues of gender in historical context using a case study approach. !3!
WMST401!Cultural Studies:Gend/Race/Rep!This course explores the visual expression of women artists, photographers, fashion designers and filmmakers while also examining feminist critical responses to these visual forms of expression. !3!WMST209
WMST409!Advanced Feminist Social Science Methodology!The goal of this course is twofold: first to cover current debates in feminist methodology and second to develop appropriate research strategies for an independent research project. !3!WMST210,AND,WMST311
WMST410!Feminist Political Philosophy!This course will provide an analysis and critique of both the historical and contemporary literature on feminist political philosophy from its enlightenment roots to its contemporary postmodernist critique on enlightenment notions of rationality. !3!
WMST411!Contemporary Feminist Theories!This course examines various themes and debates in recent feminist theories from an interdisciplinary perspective. Topics will vary from year to year. !3!WMST311
WMST413!Topics in Aboriginal Women's Studies!This course explores topics relating to aboriginal women's studies in both Canadian and international contexts.  Topics may vary from year to year.  This course may be repeated for credit (maximum six credit hours). !3,6!WMST100,OR,FNST100
WMST420!Contemporary Women's Literature!This course considers contemporary women writers and their work, emphasizing their cultural diversity and considering them in the context of feminist theory. Writers may include: Nadine Gordimer, Joy Kogawa, Amy Tan and Louise Erdrich. !3!
WMST498!Selected Topics in Women's Studies!The course examines in detail topics selected by the instructor.  This course may be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. !3,6!
WMST499!Independent Study in Women's Studies!This course enables students to read in depth in an area of women's studies not normally covered by established principal or ancillary courses in the Women's Studies Programme. !3!
